Timestamp: 2026-07-13T21:17:22.923354
Title: I Tested 20 Algo Trading Frameworks So You Don't Have To - with code
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7LuRYNAAx6M
Status: success
Duration: 37:25

Description:
---

### **PART 1. 作者的思想地图 (Author's Map)**

#### **1. 核心主张 (Core Thesis)**
量化交易者在选择开发框架时，必须避开已停止维护的“僵尸”框架，并根据目标交易资产、系统生命力（社区或企业支持力度）以及“回测到实盘的代码一致性”来选择活跃维护的现代框架。

#### **2. 论据支撑 (Evidentiary Base)**
* **GitHub 社区度量数据（硬数据）**：Freaktrade 拥有 380+ 活跃贡献者及大量 GitHub Star，用以证明其社区生命力。
* **企业与资本背景（专家/机构背书）**：QuantConnect 拥有风投资金支持且已实现盈利；Nautilus Trader 由 Tech Systems 支持；QIP 由微软支持。这些背景提供了框架不会“一夜暴毙”的信用担保。
* **框架维护现状对比（行业事实）**：
  * *已停止维护/死亡*：Backtrader（作者声明已完成并放弃维护）、Zipline（最后一次更新在去年7月）、Catalyst、Blankly、PiAlgoTrade。
  * *利基/研究专用*：VectorBT（向量化速度极快，但无原生实盘）、QIP 和 FinRL（强化学习/机器学习研究专用，无实盘）。
* **代码级语法对比（技术实证）**：作者在视频中展示了 Freaktrade、VectorBT、Nautilus Trader、QuantConnect 和 Lumibot 在实现同一个 EMA 交叉策略时的代码结构，对比了事件驱动与向量驱动的语法差异及行数。
* **性能测试数据（硬数据）**：VectorBT 在进行 4186 种参数组合优化扫频时，仅耗时 4.18 秒，证明了其在研究阶段的极端速度。
* **行业生态集成（行业先例）**：MetaTrader 4/5 拥有极广的经纪商支持和 EA 交易市场，且近期集成了 ONNX 机器学习模型支持。

#### **3. 逻辑通路的授权 (Logical Warrant)**
作者的论证主要基于**归纳推理**与**实用主义因果推论**，其核心逻辑可整理为以下三段论：
* **大前提**：量化交易系统的长期生存和盈利，取决于其开发框架能否持续适应交易所 API 的变更、保证回测与实盘表现的一致性，并提供高效的计算支持。
* **小前提**：未维护的框架（如 Backtrader、Zipline）无法应对未来的交易所 API 变更，而无原生实盘支持的框架（如 VectorBT）在向实盘迁移时会产生巨大的重构成本。
* **结论**：因此，量化交易者在新项目中应坚决弃用已死框架，在研究阶段使用 VectorBT，在实盘生产阶段根据资产类别选择 Freaktrade（加密货币）、Nautilus（极速/多资产）或 QuantConnect（多资产/云端）。

#### **4. 划定的边界 (Stated Scope)**
* **免责声明**：明确指出“本视频不构成投资建议，不建议购买或出售任何特定资产”。
* **适用限制**：
  * *VectorBT / QIP / FinRL*：“它们主要是研究工具，没有原生实盘交易支持。”
  * *QuantRocket*：“它仅支持 Interactive Brokers（盈透证券）。”
  * *Freaktrade*：“它的局限性在于仅支持加密货币。”
  * *TradingView (PineScript)*：“无法进行复杂的、包含机器学习或多资产组合的回测，存在严重的平台锁定。”

#### **5. 隐形反对者 (Implicit Opponent)**
作者暗中博弈的对象是：**盲目跟随过时网络教程的量化初学者**（他们往往仍在使用 Backtrader 或旧版 Zipline 开始新项目），以及**忽视工程落地难度、仅凭框架知名度就做出选型决策的开发者**。

#### **6. 期待的行为改变 (Intended Takeaway)**
作者希望读者立即停止在已停止维护的旧框架上浪费时间，根据自己交易的资产类别（加密货币选 Freaktrade，多资产生产级选 Nautilus，初学者选 Lumibot 或 QuantConnect 网页端）重新评估并迁移至活跃的、有商业或强力社区支持的量化框架。

---

### **PART 2. 严厉而极度公平的审阅 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review)**

#### **1. 强力重建 (Steelman)**
作者提供了一个极具行业前瞻性的量化选型指南。他敏锐地抓住了量化交易中最容易被忽视的“工程隐没成本”——即框架的生命周期和“回测-实盘一致性（Backtest-to-Live Parity）”。通过展示同一策略在五个框架下的具体代码，他直观地证明了不同框架在语法范式（事件驱动 vs 向量驱动）上的本质区别。这能切实帮助开发者避免“回测一时爽，实盘重写三年”的灾难性工程深渊。

#### **2. 最薄弱的环节 (Weakest Link)**
该论证最脆弱的基石在于对“已死/未维护框架”的绝对化贬低。作者声称：
> *"And the biggest trap to avoid is learning a dead or unmaintained framework."*

**拆解**：这一断言过于绝对。对于量化初学者而言，框架的“教学价值”往往远大于其“实盘价值”。Backtrader 虽然作者已离去，但其庞大的社区积淀、无数的中文/英文教程、极其直观且符合直觉的事件驱动 API，依然是理解量化回测逻辑的最佳教学玩具。强推像 Nautilus（高学习曲线、Rust底层、文档相对晦涩）或 QuantConnect（需要付费或绑定其云平台）这样“活着的”重型框架，反而会因为极高的工程门槛将初学者直接劝退。

#### **3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)**
* **对 VectorBT 的定性偏差**：作者声称 VectorBT “没有原生实盘功能（no native live trading）”，并推荐使用 Strataq 库进行对接。然而，作者忽略了（或未提及）VectorBT Pro（付费版）已经集成了相当完善的实盘和数据对接能力。
* **演示性回测的统计学误导**：作者在视频中展示了 Freaktrade 和 Lumibot 的回测结果（例如“亏损 0.18%”或“盈利 12.3%”），并展示了 QuantConnect 两年 53% 的收益。这种基于极短时间窗口、特定资产、未经过压力测试的“单次策略运行结果”，在统计学上毫无意义，极易给观众造成特定框架在特定策略下“工作良好”的幻觉。
* **MetaTrader ONNX 支持的局限性**：作者赞赏了 MetaTrader 新增的 ONNX 支持，但忽略了 MQL 语言在处理复杂数据结构、特征工程和现代机器学习工作流时的天然劣势，仅仅“导入 ONNX 模型”在实际多因子或高频策略中极难落地。

#### **4. 隐秘前提 (Hidden Premises)**
* **前提一：企业/VC 支持等于框架的长期生命力**。事实上，在量化交易领域，VC 支持的初创平台（如 Quantopian、Blankly）死得更快、更彻底，而由个人或小团体维护的纯开源项目有时反而因为轻量化而生命力更久。
* **前提二：运行速度（如 Rust 替代 Python）是决定量化交易成败的关键**。对于绝大多数日频、周频的趋势跟踪或多因子策略，Python 的毫秒级延迟完全不是瓶颈，过度追求 Rust 底层的 Nautilus 属于典型的“过早优化（Premature Optimization）”。

#### **5. 盲区 (The Blind Side)**
* **数据工程（Data Engineering）的隐形大山**：一个量化框架是否好用，80% 取决于它获取、清洗、对齐高质量历史数据和实时数据的难度与成本。QuantConnect 好用是因为它内置了数据，但本地 Lean 运行数据成本极高；Lumibot 依赖 Yahoo Finance，但后者的复权数据质量在生产环境中根本无法使用。作者几乎完全忽略了“数据工程”这一量化交易中成本最高、最痛苦的环节。
* **基础设施运维（DevOps）的复杂性**：Nautilus 或 Freaktrade 的本地部署、高可用运行、数据库对接、异常处理（如断网、滑点、API限制）需要极强的系统架构能力，而不仅仅是“写几行策略代码”。

#### **6. 一击必杀 (One Hit Kill)**
**问题**：既然你在视频结尾承认“大多数零售量化交易员都在亏钱”，且框架选型、数据获取、实盘运维的工程门槛如此之高，那么对于一个资金量在 10 万美元以下的个人开发者，花费数月甚至数年去学习、部署和维护一个像 Nautilus Trader 这样“机构级”的本地 Rust-Python 混合框架，其边际成本和技术风险是否已经远远超过了策略本身可能带来的超额收益（Alpha）？

#### **7. 如何一锤定音 (What Would Settle It)**
进行一项对照实验：
让同一组中等水平的 Python 开发者分别使用 **Backtrader（已死但生态极好）**、**QuantConnect（活跃但有平台绑定）** 和 **Nautilus Trader（活跃、Rust底层、高门槛）**，在给定相同策略和数据源的情况下，测量他们从“零开始”到“写出无 Bug 回测”再到“实盘部署”的**时间成本（人时）**、**Bug 发生率**以及**滑点/运维故障率**。
如果实验证明使用 Backtrader 配合简单脚本在 2 周内即可上线且运行稳定，而 Nautilus 需要 3 个月且频繁出现配置错误，那么“必须避开未维护框架”的铁律就将被证伪。

---

### **PART 3. 概念地图 (Mermaid Diagram)**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    A["💡 核心主张: 避开已死框架，依据'生命力'与'实盘一致性'选型"]:::mainClaim

    A --> B["📊 框架分类决策树"]:::mainClaim

    subgraph SG_Rec["🟢 推荐框架: 强背景 & 活跃维护"]
        direction TB
        R1["Freaktrade"]:::recNode
        R2["Nautilus Trader"]:::recNode
        R3["QuantConnect / Lean"]:::recNode

        R1 --> R1_Detail["加密货币首选 / 内置机器学习 / 强社区支持"]:::recDetail
        R2 --> R2_Detail["机构级 / Rust内核极速 / 事件驱动 / 多资产"]:::recDetail
        R3 --> R3_Detail["云端生态 / 7大资产 / 20+经纪商 / 商业化支持"]:::recDetail
    end

    subgraph SG_Niche_Dead["🔴 避坑与分众市场"]
        direction TB
        D1["已死/停止维护 (不推荐新项目)"]:::deadNode
        N1["利基/研究专用 (有特定局限)"]:::nicheNode

        D1 --> D1_List["Backtrader (作者离去) / Zipline / Catalyst / Blankly"]:::deadDetail
        N1 --> N1_List["VectorBT (向量化极速回测/无原生实盘) <br/> Lumibot (易用/适合新手) <br/> QIP & FinRL (学术研究/强化学习)"]:::nicheDetail
    end

    B --> SG_Rec
    B --> SG_Niche_Dead

    subgraph SG_Hostile["🚩 批判性审视 (Hostile Review)"]
        direction TB
        H_Weak["最薄弱环节: 绝对化否定'已死框架'"]:::reviewNode
        H_Evidence["证据审查: 忽略付费版功能与数据偏误"]:::reviewNode
        H_Blind["盲区: 忽略数据工程与运维成本"]:::reviewNode
        H_Kill["一击必杀: 个人量化的工程边际效应瓶颈"]:::reviewNode

        H_Weak --> H_Weak_D["Backtrader虽死，但生态和易用性仍是新手理解事件驱动的最佳玩具"]:::reviewDetail
        H_Evidence --> H_Evidence_D["VectorBT Pro已支持实盘；演示中的极短回测缺乏统计学意义"]:::reviewDetail
        H_Blind --> H_Blind_D["量化80%的痛点在高质量数据源(Data)与DevOps运维，而非回测代码行数"]:::reviewDetail
        H_Kill --> H_Kill_D["对10万刀以下散户，维护Nautilus等重型框架的时间成本远超策略Alpha收益"]:::reviewDetail
    end

    A -.-> H_Weak
    SG_Rec -.-> H_Blind
    SG_Niche_Dead -.-> H_Evidence
    SG_Rec -.-> H_Kill

    %% --- 样式定义 ---
    classDef mainClaim fill:#FFF9C4,stroke:#FBC02D,stroke-width:3px,color:#333
    classDef recNode fill:#C8E6C9,stroke:#388E3C,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20
    classDef recDetail fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#81C784,stroke-width:1px,color:#2E7D32
    classDef deadNode fill:#FFCDD2,stroke:#D32F2F,stroke-width:2px,color:#B71C1C
    classDef deadDetail fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#EF9A9A,stroke-width:1px,color:#C62828
    classDef nicheNode fill:#E1BEE7,stroke:#7B1FA2,stroke-width:2px,color:#4A148C
    classDef nicheDetail fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#CE93D8,stroke-width:1px,color:#6A1B9A
    classDef reviewNode fill:#FFE0B2,stroke:#F57C00,stroke-width:2px,color:#E65100
    classDef reviewDetail fill:#FFF3E0,stroke:#FFB74D,stroke-width:1px,color:#5D4037

    style SG_Rec fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#4CAF50,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Niche_Dead fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#9C27B0,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Hostile fill:#FFF3E0,stroke:#FF9800,stroke-width:2.5px
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
Hi, you're thinking about getting into, Hi, you're thinking about getting into, quant trading but don't know where to, quant trading but don't know where to, quant trading but don't know where to, start? Well, you're in luck today, start? Well, you're in luck today, start? Well, you're in luck today, because we're going to look at 20, because we're going to look at 20, because we're going to look at 20, different frameworks and only about five, different frameworks and only about five, different frameworks and only about five, are actually worth your time. And the, are actually worth your time. And the, are actually worth your time. And the, biggest trap to avoid is learning a debt, biggest trap to avoid is learning a debt, biggest trap to avoid is learning a debt, or unmaintained framework. And for the, or unmaintained framework. And for the, or unmaintained framework. And for the, five most relevant ones, we're also, five most relevant ones, we're also, five most relevant ones, we're also, going to look at code today. So stay, going to look at code today. So stay, going to look at code today. So stay, tuned. And yeah, we're going to look at, tuned. And yeah, we're going to look at, tuned. And yeah, we're going to look at, which framework fits you best. Here are, which framework fits you best. Here are, which framework fits you best. Here are, some timestamps to skip ahead to a, some timestamps to skip ahead to a, some timestamps to skip ahead to a, certain section. And with that, let's uh, certain section. And with that, let's uh, certain section. And with that, let's uh, jump right in. Woo there. Before we, jump right in. Woo there. Before we, jump right in. Woo there. Before we, begin, just know that this is not, begin, just know that this is not, begin, just know that this is not, financial advice. And I do not advise, financial advice. And I do not advise, financial advice. And I do not advise, you to buy or sell any specific asset., you to buy or sell any specific asset., you to buy or sell any specific asset., And also always do your own research, And also always do your own research, And also always do your own research, although this video might be a part of, although this video might be a part of, although this video might be a part of, that research, I guess. So now we can, that research, I guess. So now we can, that research, I guess. So now we can, begin. Okay, let's begin with the, begin. Okay, let's begin with the, begin. Okay, let's begin with the, recommended frameworks. This is going to, recommended frameworks. This is going to, recommended frameworks. This is going to, be a quick overview, recommended, not, be a quick overview, recommended, not, be a quick overview, recommended, not, recommended, niche, but potentially, recommended, niche, but potentially, recommended, niche, but potentially, useful. And then we're going to look at, useful. And then we're going to look at, useful. And then we're going to look at, specific coding code examples for some, specific coding code examples for some, specific coding code examples for some, of the frameworks and also honorable, of the frameworks and also honorable, of the frameworks and also honorable, mentions and trends to watch in the, mentions and trends to watch in the, mentions and trends to watch in the, future. All right. So these are the, future. All right. So these are the, future. All right. So these are the, recommended frameworks that I would, recommended frameworks that I would, recommended frameworks that I would, recommend because they are all well, recommend because they are all well, recommend because they are all well, maintained., maintained., maintained., For example, Freak Trade or Frack Trade, For example, Freak Trade or Frack Trade, For example, Freak Trade or Frack Trade, I don't know how you pronounce that, has, I don't know how you pronounce that, has, I don't know how you pronounce that, has, 380 uh and war contributors. Not, 380 uh and war contributors. Not, 380 uh and war contributors. Not, illustrators actively maintained by now, illustrators actively maintained by now, illustrators actively maintained by now, tech systems and quant connect lean of, tech systems and quant connect lean of, tech systems and quant connect lean of, course maintained by Quant Connect. They, course maintained by Quant Connect. They, course maintained by Quant Connect. They, all have a lot of stars on GitHub, all have a lot of stars on GitHub, all have a lot of stars on GitHub, meaning that the community is also very, meaning that the community is also very, meaning that the community is also very, strong. You can probably find a lot of, strong. You can probably find a lot of, strong. You can probably find a lot of, tutorials on them or otherwise ask in, tutorials on them or otherwise ask in, tutorials on them or otherwise ask in, the um community forums. So, very good, the um community forums. So, very good, the um community forums. So, very good, starting points, so to speak. Um you, starting points, so to speak. Um you, starting points, so to speak. Um you, can't really go wrong with any of these, can't really go wrong with any of these, can't really go wrong with any of these, but there are of course things to, but there are of course things to, but there are of course things to, consider and we're going to get into, consider and we're going to get into, consider and we're going to get into, that. Um, fict trade is basically very, that. Um, fict trade is basically very, that. Um, fict trade is basically very, good for crypto has built-in machine, good for crypto has built-in machine, good for crypto has built-in machine, learning. Nautilus trader um is, learning. Nautilus trader um is, learning. Nautilus trader um is, institutional grade because it has a, institutional grade because it has a, institutional grade because it has a, rust core meaning it's um very very fast, rust core meaning it's um very very fast, rust core meaning it's um very very fast, in the back end and it basically, in the back end and it basically, in the back end and it basically, supports all asset classes and can be, supports all asset classes and can be, supports all asset classes and can be, expanded to um support also any broker, expanded to um support also any broker, expanded to um support also any broker, you might need and quant connect or the, you might need and quant connect or the, you might need and quant connect or the, quant connect lean platform um they're, quant connect lean platform um they're, quant connect lean platform um they're, basically part of the same um platform, basically part of the same um platform, basically part of the same um platform, or ecosystem it's a very complete, or ecosystem it's a very complete, or ecosystem it's a very complete, ecosystem lot of stuff taken care of for, ecosystem lot of stuff taken care of for, ecosystem lot of stuff taken care of for, you and that supports seven asset, you and that supports seven asset, you and that supports seven asset, classes classes and 20 plus brokers out, classes classes and 20 plus brokers out, classes classes and 20 plus brokers out, of the box. And the second type of, of the box. And the second type of, of the box. And the second type of, framework are the debt or faulty ones., framework are the debt or faulty ones., framework are the debt or faulty ones., So stay away from these ideally. So for, So stay away from these ideally. So for, So stay away from these ideally. So for, example, we have back trader. It's a, example, we have back trader. It's a, example, we have back trader. It's a, nice framework. However, the creator, nice framework. However, the creator, nice framework. However, the creator, sees it as completed and walked away. So, sees it as completed and walked away. So, sees it as completed and walked away. So, it's unmaintained. However, it has a, it's unmaintained. However, it has a, it's unmaintained. However, it has a, really big tutorial ecosystem. uh still, really big tutorial ecosystem. uh still, really big tutorial ecosystem. uh still, a lot of community um so you know for, a lot of community um so you know for, a lot of community um so you know for, learning it might be a good idea however, learning it might be a good idea however, learning it might be a good idea however, I wouldn't necessarily start new, I wouldn't necessarily start new, I wouldn't necessarily start new, projects with this and then you have, projects with this and then you have, projects with this and then you have, some other ones like for example, some other ones like for example, some other ones like for example, catalyst blankly pi algo trade and, catalyst blankly pi algo trade and, catalyst blankly pi algo trade and, zipline, zipline, zipline, for some reason a different font size, for some reason a different font size, for some reason a different font size, but all of these are basically, but all of these are basically, but all of these are basically, unmaintained defunct um not recommended, unmaintained defunct um not recommended, unmaintained defunct um not recommended, and now we look at the niche but, and now we look at the niche but, and now we look at the niche but, potentially useful frameworks starting, potentially useful frameworks starting, potentially useful frameworks starting, with vector BT which has unmatched speed, with vector BT which has unmatched speed, with vector BT which has unmatched speed, some call it the speed demon um for, some call it the speed demon um for, some call it the speed demon um for, example for back testing but also for, example for back testing but also for, example for back testing but also for, optimization parameter sweeps um however, optimization parameter sweeps um however, optimization parameter sweeps um however, it's primarily a research tool so, it's primarily a research tool so, it's primarily a research tool so, there's no native live trading and um, there's no native live trading and um, there's no native live trading and um, the same goes for QIP and Finn RL um, the same goes for QIP and Finn RL um, the same goes for QIP and Finn RL um, both really good frameworks for machine, both really good frameworks for machine, both really good frameworks for machine, learning re reinforcement learning Um, learning re reinforcement learning Um, learning re reinforcement learning Um, however, they're research only. So, you, however, they're research only. So, you, however, they're research only. So, you, would have to build your own kind of, would have to build your own kind of, would have to build your own kind of, execution framework for live trading., execution framework for live trading., execution framework for live trading., Lumiot is really good for beginners., Lumiot is really good for beginners., Lumiot is really good for beginners., However, because of that, it's also not, However, because of that, it's also not, However, because of that, it's also not, as powerful, as powerful, as powerful, has a smaller community. And then you, has a smaller community. And then you, has a smaller community. And then you, have Jesse, which sort of serves a, have Jesse, which sort of serves a, have Jesse, which sort of serves a, similar purpose as Freak Trade. So, you, similar purpose as Freak Trade. So, you, similar purpose as Freak Trade. So, you, know, uh decide for yourself whether you, know, uh decide for yourself whether you, know, uh decide for yourself whether you, want to spend those uh around $700, want to spend those uh around $700, want to spend those uh around $700, uh for live trading because back testing, uh for live trading because back testing, uh for live trading because back testing, um is completely possible without that, um is completely possible without that, um is completely possible without that, but for live trading, it's around $700., but for live trading, it's around $700., but for live trading, it's around $700., You can look at the website. And fourth, You can look at the website. And fourth, You can look at the website. And fourth, and finally, we have the frameworks, and finally, we have the frameworks, and finally, we have the frameworks, which I would not recommend. Doesn't, which I would not recommend. Doesn't, which I would not recommend. Doesn't, mean they're not functional. These still, mean they're not functional. These still, mean they're not functional. These still, function. However, there's other caveats, function. However, there's other caveats, function. However, there's other caveats, that don't make them recommendable. For, that don't make them recommendable. For, that don't make them recommendable. For, example, zipline reloaded, no live, example, zipline reloaded, no live, example, zipline reloaded, no live, trading, only back testing. So, it's, trading, only back testing. So, it's, trading, only back testing. So, it's, really research focused and it's not, really research focused and it's not, really research focused and it's not, very actively maintained. The last, very actively maintained. The last, very actively maintained. The last, release was in July of last year. Then, release was in July of last year. Then, release was in July of last year. Then, we have BT and backtesting.py., we have BT and backtesting.py., we have BT and backtesting.py., Similarly, back testing, no live, Similarly, back testing, no live, Similarly, back testing, no live, trading., trading., trading., However, I got to say the visualizations, However, I got to say the visualizations, However, I got to say the visualizations, of backtesting.py Pi are nice but I, of backtesting.py Pi are nice but I, of backtesting.py Pi are nice but I, would still not recommend it. So that, would still not recommend it. So that, would still not recommend it. So that, was a lot. So maybe there are some rules, was a lot. So maybe there are some rules, was a lot. So maybe there are some rules, of thumb and yes I would say so my rules, of thumb and yes I would say so my rules, of thumb and yes I would say so my rules, of thumb would be to look at the number, of thumb would be to look at the number, of thumb would be to look at the number, of active maintainers contributors on, of active maintainers contributors on, of active maintainers contributors on, GitHub who is backing the specific, GitHub who is backing the specific, GitHub who is backing the specific, platform. For example, with Quant, platform. For example, with Quant, platform. For example, with Quant, Connect, there's the VCbacked I think, Connect, there's the VCbacked I think, Connect, there's the VCbacked I think, now also profitable company Quant, now also profitable company Quant, now also profitable company Quant, Connect and with illustrator there's now, Connect and with illustrator there's now, Connect and with illustrator there's now, tech systems. QIP for example is from, tech systems. QIP for example is from, tech systems. QIP for example is from, Microsoft and this is good to look at if, Microsoft and this is good to look at if, Microsoft and this is good to look at if, you choose a specific framework because, you choose a specific framework because, you choose a specific framework because, as we saw with Back Trader as we saw um, as we saw with Back Trader as we saw um, as we saw with Back Trader as we saw um, even with Zipline with Quontopian these, even with Zipline with Quontopian these, even with Zipline with Quontopian these, things can die overnight and then you're, things can die overnight and then you're, things can die overnight and then you're, stuck sort of with vendor lock in or, stuck sort of with vendor lock in or, stuck sort of with vendor lock in or, with just a dead framework um leaving, with just a dead framework um leaving, with just a dead framework um leaving, you to maintain it yourself or having to, you to maintain it yourself or having to, you to maintain it yourself or having to, migrate and that's of course a lot of, migrate and that's of course a lot of, migrate and that's of course a lot of, And uh so this is a big thing to, And uh so this is a big thing to, And uh so this is a big thing to, consider when choosing your framework., consider when choosing your framework., consider when choosing your framework., Another thing to consider is that if you, Another thing to consider is that if you, Another thing to consider is that if you, choose the best framework, choose the best framework, choose the best framework, but then it doesn't support your asset, but then it doesn't support your asset, but then it doesn't support your asset, class, that doesn't really make sense., class, that doesn't really make sense., class, that doesn't really make sense., So I would first look at which framework, So I would first look at which framework, So I would first look at which framework, support the asset classes you want to, support the asset classes you want to, support the asset classes you want to, trade and then narrow down that way and, trade and then narrow down that way and, trade and then narrow down that way and, choose the best one. And if in doubt, I, choose the best one. And if in doubt, I, choose the best one. And if in doubt, I, think you it's fair to say that quant, think you it's fair to say that quant, think you it's fair to say that quant, connect is quite easy to use and good, connect is quite easy to use and good, connect is quite easy to use and good, for stocks for equities. Freak trade or, for stocks for equities. Freak trade or, for stocks for equities. Freak trade or, fract trade or however you pronounce it, fract trade or however you pronounce it, fract trade or however you pronounce it, is good for crypto and nautilus trader, is good for crypto and nautilus trader, is good for crypto and nautilus trader, is good for production grade multiasset, is good for production grade multiasset, is good for production grade multiasset, trading. All right, so let's look at the, trading. All right, so let's look at the, trading. All right, so let's look at the, first framework specifically which is, first framework specifically which is, first framework specifically which is, freak trade. Let's look at the code. Um, freak trade. Let's look at the code. Um, freak trade. Let's look at the code. Um, this is a simpler hybrid strategy. Uh, this is a simpler hybrid strategy. Uh, this is a simpler hybrid strategy. Uh, integrates mean reversion and trend, integrates mean reversion and trend, integrates mean reversion and trend, following in the RSI and EMA. I won't go, following in the RSI and EMA. I won't go, following in the RSI and EMA. I won't go, into the strategy. Um I will put the, into the strategy. Um I will put the, into the strategy. Um I will put the, code on GitHub so you can look at it and, code on GitHub so you can look at it and, code on GitHub so you can look at it and, ask your favorite AI um how it works., ask your favorite AI um how it works., ask your favorite AI um how it works., What is interesting to us now is how, What is interesting to us now is how, What is interesting to us now is how, does the framework work. So let's go to, does the framework work. So let's go to, does the framework work. So let's go to, the terminal and just paste this command, the terminal and just paste this command, the terminal and just paste this command, to download data. We have free trade., to download data. We have free trade., to download data. We have free trade., That's how you have to um start the, That's how you have to um start the, That's how you have to um start the, command. That's uh basically just to, command. That's uh basically just to, command. That's uh basically just to, invoke the framework. Then download, invoke the framework. Then download, invoke the framework. Then download, data. You specify the exchange in this, data. You specify the exchange in this, data. You specify the exchange in this, case Binance has free data for these, case Binance has free data for these, case Binance has free data for these, symbols and then the time frame and then, symbols and then the time frame and then, symbols and then the time frame and then, also important time range. All right. So, also important time range. All right. So, also important time range. All right. So, now we have downloaded the data. So, now we have downloaded the data. So, now we have downloaded the data. So, let's just real quick start the back, let's just real quick start the back, let's just real quick start the back, test. So the command to start a back, test. So the command to start a back, test. So the command to start a back, test here is freak trade back testing., test here is freak trade back testing., test here is freak trade back testing., Then in the strategy where it is um yeah, Then in the strategy where it is um yeah, Then in the strategy where it is um yeah, the the time frame basically and then, the the time frame basically and then, the the time frame basically and then, the time range. So let's start this., the time range. So let's start this., the time range. So let's start this., It'll pull the data we just downloaded., It'll pull the data we just downloaded., It'll pull the data we just downloaded., Uh it's starting the back test and, Uh it's starting the back test and, Uh it's starting the back test and, then we immediately see the result, then we immediately see the result, then we immediately see the result, because five minute time frame means, because five minute time frame means, because five minute time frame means, there's not a lot of data points. So, there's not a lot of data points. So, there's not a lot of data points. So, what are the results? We have a total, what are the results? We have a total, what are the results? We have a total, profit of minus0.18%., profit of minus0.18%., profit of minus0.18%., So not much changed overall. We lost um, So not much changed overall. We lost um, So not much changed overall. We lost um, $180., $180., $180., Uh that's a bummer. We're not going to, Uh that's a bummer. We're not going to, Uh that's a bummer. We're not going to, be able to buy half a coffee next week., be able to buy half a coffee next week., be able to buy half a coffee next week., Um but the important part is just that, Um but the important part is just that, Um but the important part is just that, it works and you can also see some of, it works and you can also see some of, it works and you can also see some of, the, the, the, basically how to program with this, basically how to program with this, basically how to program with this, framework um in terms of you define the, framework um in terms of you define the, framework um in terms of you define the, parameters uh of the strategy here on, parameters uh of the strategy here on, parameters uh of the strategy here on, the top and then you can also hyper, the top and then you can also hyper, the top and then you can also hyper, optimize it with um free trade. You can, optimize it with um free trade. You can, optimize it with um free trade. You can, do hyper parameter optimization, do hyper parameter optimization, do hyper parameter optimization, um which is basically optimizing the uh, um which is basically optimizing the uh, um which is basically optimizing the uh, parameters of the strategy how it works, parameters of the strategy how it works, parameters of the strategy how it works, in order for it to um give you more, in order for it to um give you more, in order for it to um give you more, profit and then you have some um yeah, profit and then you have some um yeah, profit and then you have some um yeah, standard uh functions basically like, standard uh functions basically like, standard uh functions basically like, populating the indicators um then the, populating the indicators um then the, populating the indicators um then the, entry and exit um so that's basically, entry and exit um so that's basically, entry and exit um so that's basically, how back testing and freak trade works., how back testing and freak trade works., how back testing and freak trade works., And the limitation with Freick Trade is, And the limitation with Freick Trade is, And the limitation with Freick Trade is, that it's crypto only. So no built-in, that it's crypto only. So no built-in, that it's crypto only. So no built-in, support for stocks or other instrument, support for stocks or other instrument, support for stocks or other instrument, types. And then um some builtin killer, types. And then um some builtin killer, types. And then um some builtin killer, features are for example the built-in ML, features are for example the built-in ML, features are for example the built-in ML, and AI support. So you can with freak, and AI support. So you can with freak, and AI support. So you can with freak, trade basically natively train machine, trade basically natively train machine, trade basically natively train machine, learning models for trading. Let's look, learning models for trading. Let's look, learning models for trading. Let's look, at the next framework which is vector BT, at the next framework which is vector BT, at the next framework which is vector BT, the speed demon. So let's jump right, the speed demon. So let's jump right, the speed demon. So let's jump right, into the code. We import vectorbt. Um, into the code. We import vectorbt. Um, into the code. We import vectorbt. Um, first this is not relating to vector bt., first this is not relating to vector bt., first this is not relating to vector bt., We just generate some sample data u, We just generate some sample data u, We just generate some sample data u, basically, basically, basically, bitcoin like uh time series data and, bitcoin like uh time series data and, bitcoin like uh time series data and, then um this is for a single back test, then um this is for a single back test, then um this is for a single back test, the code. We basically do uh an MA, the code. We basically do uh an MA, the code. We basically do uh an MA, strategy. again, strategy. again, strategy. again, um this is basically the the where you, um this is basically the the where you, um this is basically the the where you, run the the back test. You just put in, run the the back test. You just put in, run the the back test. You just put in, some of the parameters like for example, some of the parameters like for example, some of the parameters like for example, the initial cache uh simulating fees and, the initial cache uh simulating fees and, the initial cache uh simulating fees and, slippage which is always really, slippage which is always really, slippage which is always really, important with back tests and uh that's, important with back tests and uh that's, important with back tests and uh that's, it. That's all you need to run a back, it. That's all you need to run a back, it. That's all you need to run a back, test with vector BT. So let's do that, test with vector BT. So let's do that, test with vector BT. So let's do that, before actually let's look at another, before actually let's look at another, before actually let's look at another, feature really cool with vectorbt which, feature really cool with vectorbt which, feature really cool with vectorbt which, is um parameter sweeps very efficient so, is um parameter sweeps very efficient so, is um parameter sweeps very efficient so, very very quick the fastest framework, very very quick the fastest framework, very very quick the fastest framework, for this and yeah basically we defined, for this and yeah basically we defined, for this and yeah basically we defined, some series for um entry and exit um, some series for um entry and exit um, some series for um entry and exit um, signals and then we plug that into the, signals and then we plug that into the, signals and then we plug that into the, um portfolio simulation again and then, um portfolio simulation again and then, um portfolio simulation again and then, it basically uh simulates that off of, it basically uh simulates that off of, it basically uh simulates that off of, that. So this is not, that. So this is not, that. So this is not, um event driven vectorbt is very much, um event driven vectorbt is very much, um event driven vectorbt is very much, vector driven. So that means it kind of, vector driven. So that means it kind of, vector driven. So that means it kind of, premputes um a lot of the these time, premputes um a lot of the these time, premputes um a lot of the these time, series uh which which makes it so fast., series uh which which makes it so fast., series uh which which makes it so fast., However, it's a bit difficult to think, However, it's a bit difficult to think, However, it's a bit difficult to think, of to to think about um the the strategy, of to to think about um the the strategy, of to to think about um the the strategy, and defining it and um also quite, and defining it and um also quite, and defining it and um also quite, difficult to port yourself to live, difficult to port yourself to live, difficult to port yourself to live, trading. But uh let's stop talking., trading. But uh let's stop talking., trading. But uh let's stop talking., Let's uh look at how fast it is actually, Let's uh look at how fast it is actually, Let's uh look at how fast it is actually, because that's a big plus with vectorbt, because that's a big plus with vectorbt, because that's a big plus with vectorbt, that it's so extremely fast with doing a, that it's so extremely fast with doing a, that it's so extremely fast with doing a, back test. So we just uh generated the, back test. So we just uh generated the, back test. So we just uh generated the, data and immediately we have the back, data and immediately we have the back, data and immediately we have the back, testing result. Now we're doing 4,186, testing result. Now we're doing 4,186, testing result. Now we're doing 4,186, parameter combinations and it only took, parameter combinations and it only took, parameter combinations and it only took, 4.18 seconds. So that's the key thing, 4.18 seconds. So that's the key thing, 4.18 seconds. So that's the key thing, with with factor BT. It's so much faster, with with factor BT. It's so much faster, with with factor BT. It's so much faster, than frameworks like for example, than frameworks like for example, than frameworks like for example, backrader which is pure Python. Pure, backrader which is pure Python. Pure, backrader which is pure Python. Pure, Python sounds cool. However, it's quite, Python sounds cool. However, it's quite, Python sounds cool. However, it's quite, slow. It's really slow actually. So this, slow. It's really slow actually. So this, slow. It's really slow actually. So this, yeah that's that's a big advantage with, yeah that's that's a big advantage with, yeah that's that's a big advantage with, vector BT and there is a um sort of yeah, vector BT and there is a um sort of yeah, vector BT and there is a um sort of yeah, saving grace or or there is a way to go, saving grace or or there is a way to go, saving grace or or there is a way to go, about doing live trading with vector BT, about doing live trading with vector BT, about doing live trading with vector BT, um but I'm going to talk about that, um but I'm going to talk about that, um but I'm going to talk about that, later. Next we're going to look at NOS's, later. Next we're going to look at NOS's, later. Next we're going to look at NOS's, trader which is very robust for, trader which is very robust for, trader which is very robust for, production grade institutional grade, production grade institutional grade, production grade institutional grade, trading. It supports basically all asset, trading. It supports basically all asset, trading. It supports basically all asset, classes, has 16 built-in broker, classes, has 16 built-in broker, classes, has 16 built-in broker, integrations and has true back test to, integrations and has true back test to, integrations and has true back test to, live par. You only have to change some, live par. You only have to change some, live par. You only have to change some, config. You don't have to change, config. You don't have to change, config. You don't have to change, anything but the strategy indicators or, anything but the strategy indicators or, anything but the strategy indicators or, you know other um basically signal, you know other um basically signal, you know other um basically signal, sources um that you run while um yeah, sources um that you run while um yeah, sources um that you run while um yeah, back testing or trading. You don't have, back testing or trading. You don't have, back testing or trading. You don't have, to change anything about that only the, to change anything about that only the, to change anything about that only the, config. But let's jump right into the, config. But let's jump right into the, config. But let's jump right into the, code., code., code., So we just import some stuff from the, So we just import some stuff from the, So we just import some stuff from the, framework and then we um do some config, framework and then we um do some config, framework and then we um do some config, from the um for the strategy config and, from the um for the strategy config and, from the um for the strategy config and, then we define a strategy which is again, then we define a strategy which is again, then we define a strategy which is again, just a simple EMA um strategy., just a simple EMA um strategy., just a simple EMA um strategy., Um first some initialization and then we, Um first some initialization and then we, Um first some initialization and then we, have specific functions um we need to, have specific functions um we need to, have specific functions um we need to, define to uh implement ourselves which, define to uh implement ourselves which, define to uh implement ourselves which, is on start which is um basically the, is on start which is um basically the, is on start which is um basically the, function that runs before any data is, function that runs before any data is, function that runs before any data is, processed because now trader is event, processed because now trader is event, processed because now trader is event, driven. Um however still very quick, driven. Um however still very quick, driven. Um however still very quick, because its core is written in rust but, because its core is written in rust but, because its core is written in rust but, nothing comes close to vector bt., nothing comes close to vector bt., nothing comes close to vector bt., So we define some stuff for example, So we define some stuff for example, So we define some stuff for example, subscribing to the bars the the data, subscribing to the bars the the data, subscribing to the bars the the data, that will come in and then we have the, that will come in and then we have the, that will come in and then we have the, function on bar to basically do the yeah, function on bar to basically do the yeah, function on bar to basically do the yeah, generate the signals execute on the, generate the signals execute on the, generate the signals execute on the, signals um while the data is coming in., signals um while the data is coming in., signals um while the data is coming in., So again just simple EMA strategy. I, So again just simple EMA strategy. I, So again just simple EMA strategy. I, won't go into it uh right now. You can, won't go into it uh right now. You can, won't go into it uh right now. You can, ask your favorite AI how it works. Um, ask your favorite AI how it works. Um, ask your favorite AI how it works. Um, yeah, some entry and exit logic and um, yeah, some entry and exit logic and um, yeah, some entry and exit logic and um, yeah, then also for example on stop, yeah, then also for example on stop, yeah, then also for example on stop, which is basically the last function, which is basically the last function, which is basically the last function, that um gets called um with a back test, that um gets called um with a back test, that um gets called um with a back test, and then reloading some data here but, and then reloading some data here but, and then reloading some data here but, that's not too important. It's more, that's not too important. It's more, that's not too important. It's more, about the strategy right now. So yeah, about the strategy right now. So yeah, about the strategy right now. So yeah, let's just run the back test. See how it, let's just run the back test. See how it, let's just run the back test. See how it, goes, what happens. So, we saw a lot of, goes, what happens. So, we saw a lot of, goes, what happens. So, we saw a lot of, logs here, logs here, logs here, which is um also kind of nice because we, which is um also kind of nice because we, which is um also kind of nice because we, want that in order to um yeah, poke, want that in order to um yeah, poke, want that in order to um yeah, poke, around in in the strategy, figure out, around in in the strategy, figure out, around in in the strategy, figure out, whether it's going well or not. Um but, whether it's going well or not. Um but, whether it's going well or not. Um but, we just see some in initialization here., we just see some in initialization here., we just see some in initialization here., Um, Um, Um, and then basically orders uh coming in., and then basically orders uh coming in., and then basically orders uh coming in., This is all just within the back test., This is all just within the back test., This is all just within the back test., You can just skip all of that. Not too, You can just skip all of that. Not too, You can just skip all of that. Not too, important right now. Again, you can also, important right now. Again, you can also, important right now. Again, you can also, run all of this at home if you want to, run all of this at home if you want to, run all of this at home if you want to, just get a bit of more of a feel for, just get a bit of more of a feel for, just get a bit of more of a feel for, these frameworks. And then we have the, these frameworks. And then we have the, these frameworks. And then we have the, profit and loss statistics, the the, profit and loss statistics, the the, profit and loss statistics, the the, juicy part. So, we made a whole 12% uh, juicy part. So, we made a whole 12% uh, juicy part. So, we made a whole 12% uh, no actually 0.012%, uh profit. So, we made 12, uh profit. So, we made 12, uh, uh, uh, dollars basically because this is a, dollars basically because this is a, dollars basically because this is a, stable coin, but basically $12 of, stable coin, but basically $12 of, stable coin, but basically $12 of, profit. So, very amazing um results. But, profit. So, very amazing um results. But, profit. So, very amazing um results. But, uh yeah, this just gives you basically a, uh yeah, this just gives you basically a, uh yeah, this just gives you basically a, taste of how not trader works. And then, taste of how not trader works. And then, taste of how not trader works. And then, we just have some reports which we can, we just have some reports which we can, we just have some reports which we can, also print out. And um yeah, that's not, also print out. And um yeah, that's not, also print out. And um yeah, that's not, trader. Whoa. What's going on? We're in, trader. Whoa. What's going on? We're in, trader. Whoa. What's going on? We're in, the browser now. Okay. Why is that?, the browser now. Okay. Why is that?, the browser now. Okay. Why is that?, Because to use the CLI, to use the, Because to use the CLI, to use the, Because to use the CLI, to use the, terminal, to do it all locally with, terminal, to do it all locally with, terminal, to do it all locally with, Quant Connect, which is the next one, Quant Connect, which is the next one, Quant Connect, which is the next one, you have to be on a pier. And I don't, you have to be on a pier. And I don't, you have to be on a pier. And I don't, use Quant Connect personally or with my, use Quant Connect personally or with my, use Quant Connect personally or with my, company, Auto Trade Lab. So yeah, I have, company, Auto Trade Lab. So yeah, I have, company, Auto Trade Lab. So yeah, I have, to do it in the browser. So I just, to do it in the browser. So I just, to do it in the browser. So I just, created an account with Quant Connect., created an account with Quant Connect., created an account with Quant Connect., And uh yeah, we have a simple strategy, And uh yeah, we have a simple strategy, And uh yeah, we have a simple strategy, here. Um again I think with uh EMA if, here. Um again I think with uh EMA if, here. Um again I think with uh EMA if, I'm not mistaken. Yes. And RSI as well., I'm not mistaken. Yes. And RSI as well., I'm not mistaken. Yes. And RSI as well., So quite simple strategy, So quite simple strategy, So quite simple strategy, again. But how does it work? So, again. But how does it work? So, again. But how does it work? So, basically we're in the cloud environment, basically we're in the cloud environment, basically we're in the cloud environment, of quant connect right now. Um we can um, of quant connect right now. Um we can um, of quant connect right now. Um we can um, in here back test um strategies but also, in here back test um strategies but also, in here back test um strategies but also, start live trading. So that's pretty, start live trading. So that's pretty, start live trading. So that's pretty, cool. With qu connect you don't have to, cool. With qu connect you don't have to, cool. With qu connect you don't have to, run anything locally um unless you want, run anything locally um unless you want, run anything locally um unless you want, to with the CLI tool which is called, to with the CLI tool which is called, to with the CLI tool which is called, lean. So, Quan Connect has a platform, lean. So, Quan Connect has a platform, lean. So, Quan Connect has a platform, and then has another platform which is, and then has another platform which is, and then has another platform which is, called Quan Connect Lean., called Quan Connect Lean., called Quan Connect Lean., Um, but you have to pay for it to use it, Um, but you have to pay for it to use it, Um, but you have to pay for it to use it, locally. And uh they have a pretty nice, locally. And uh they have a pretty nice, locally. And uh they have a pretty nice, free tier as well uh online like on the, free tier as well uh online like on the, free tier as well uh online like on the, web where I I am right now. But of, web where I I am right now. But of, web where I I am right now. But of, course to get most of it you also have, course to get most of it you also have, course to get most of it you also have, would have to pay a subscription and um, would have to pay a subscription and um, would have to pay a subscription and um, it's quite expensive. But yeah, we, it's quite expensive. But yeah, we, it's quite expensive. But yeah, we, initialize basically some of the, initialize basically some of the, initialize basically some of the, parameters. Um yeah, what are we going, parameters. Um yeah, what are we going, parameters. Um yeah, what are we going, to um trade on the indicators basically, to um trade on the indicators basically, to um trade on the indicators basically, uh just some initialization, uh just some initialization, uh just some initialization, and then uh this is um yeah where, and then uh this is um yeah where, and then uh this is um yeah where, everything happens um rebalancing daily, everything happens um rebalancing daily, everything happens um rebalancing daily, um yeah and then every time an order, um yeah and then every time an order, um yeah and then every time an order, comes in we lock that as well. So yeah, comes in we lock that as well. So yeah, comes in we lock that as well. So yeah, basically this is a um portfolio, basically this is a um portfolio, basically this is a um portfolio, rebalancing uh strategy. So yeah, quite, rebalancing uh strategy. So yeah, quite, rebalancing uh strategy. So yeah, quite, simple but let's just run the back test, simple but let's just run the back test, simple but let's just run the back test, which you can do up here. So we click on, which you can do up here. So we click on, which you can do up here. So we click on, back test project. It starts a new one, back test project. It starts a new one, back test project. It starts a new one, and then it will take a bit. Um you can, and then it will take a bit. Um you can, and then it will take a bit. Um you can, see here always in the terminal and by, see here always in the terminal and by, see here always in the terminal and by, the way this is just uh online VS code., the way this is just uh online VS code., the way this is just uh online VS code., I mean maybe maybe you're familiar with, I mean maybe maybe you're familiar with, I mean maybe maybe you're familiar with, how this looks but this is just VS code., how this looks but this is just VS code., how this looks but this is just VS code., Um, so if you're used to VS Code, Um, so if you're used to VS Code, Um, so if you're used to VS Code, there's nothing more to get used to., there's nothing more to get used to., there's nothing more to get used to., It's just on the web. So I guess a lot, It's just on the web. So I guess a lot, It's just on the web. So I guess a lot, of the key bindings also don't really, of the key bindings also don't really, of the key bindings also don't really, work um like they do in VS Code, but um, work um like they do in VS Code, but um, work um like they do in VS Code, but um, yeah. So turns out we made a big big, yeah. So turns out we made a big big, yeah. So turns out we made a big big, profit. Wow. Um maybe I shouldn't show, profit. Wow. Um maybe I shouldn't show, profit. Wow. Um maybe I shouldn't show, this on screen, but uh over, this on screen, but uh over, this on screen, but uh over, so since January um 2023 until January, so since January um 2023 until January, so since January um 2023 until January, 2025, uh we made 50k in profit on 100k, 2025, uh we made 50k in profit on 100k, 2025, uh we made 50k in profit on 100k, of initial uh capital. So uh 53%, of initial uh capital. So uh 53%, of initial uh capital. So uh 53%, um 58 if you 54 I mean if you round um, um 58 if you 54 I mean if you round um, um 58 if you 54 I mean if you round um, return so what is the sharp ratio? What, return so what is the sharp ratio? What, return so what is the sharp ratio? What, is the So the sharp ratio is 1.3., is the So the sharp ratio is 1.3., is the So the sharp ratio is 1.3., Sautino ratio is 1.8. I always prefer, Sautino ratio is 1.8. I always prefer, Sautino ratio is 1.8. I always prefer, the Sautino. Um, the Sautino. Um, the Sautino. Um, won't go into that now. But basically, won't go into that now. But basically, won't go into that now. But basically, the sharp ratio punishes also rapid, the sharp ratio punishes also rapid, the sharp ratio punishes also rapid, upside moves which I don't mind but um, upside moves which I don't mind but um, upside moves which I don't mind but um, yeah so this is the interface you see, yeah so this is the interface you see, yeah so this is the interface you see, after you run a back test. And then you, after you run a back test. And then you, after you run a back test. And then you, can also um similarly start live trading, can also um similarly start live trading, can also um similarly start live trading, here on Quant Connect. And last but not, here on Quant Connect. And last but not, here on Quant Connect. And last but not, least, we're going to look at Lumiot, least, we're going to look at Lumiot, least, we're going to look at Lumiot, which is very beginner friendly., which is very beginner friendly., which is very beginner friendly., um supports stocks, options, one of the, um supports stocks, options, one of the, um supports stocks, options, one of the, few frameworks that supports options, few frameworks that supports options, few frameworks that supports options, futures, crypto, and forex. So, this has, futures, crypto, and forex. So, this has, futures, crypto, and forex. So, this has, um the same code for back testing and, um the same code for back testing and, um the same code for back testing and, live trading, which is very nice. And in, live trading, which is very nice. And in, live trading, which is very nice. And in, general, it's more easy to work with, general, it's more easy to work with, general, it's more easy to work with, but of course, that also means it's not, but of course, that also means it's not, but of course, that also means it's not, as powerful. So we have again just a, as powerful. So we have again just a, as powerful. So we have again just a, momentum strategy, momentum strategy, momentum strategy, and um yeah we have the parameters um an, and um yeah we have the parameters um an, and um yeah we have the parameters um an, initialization function and then every, initialization function and then every, initialization function and then every, uh trading iteration basically this, uh trading iteration basically this, uh trading iteration basically this, function gets called um first the the, function gets called um first the the, function gets called um first the the, bars and then, bars and then, bars and then, um we have the um calculation of the, um we have the um calculation of the, um we have the um calculation of the, entry signals, entry signals, entry signals, and then um If you know the indicators, and then um If you know the indicators, and then um If you know the indicators, um are as we would want them in order to, um are as we would want them in order to, um are as we would want them in order to, to enter um we do enter and then we also, to enter um we do enter and then we also, to enter um we do enter and then we also, close at the end of the um back test., So um we download data again with Yahoo, So um we download data again with Yahoo, Finance which is just free no API key, Finance which is just free no API key, Finance which is just free no API key, required. So quite nice for, required. So quite nice for, required. So quite nice for, demonstrations like this. And uh yeah, I, demonstrations like this. And uh yeah, I, demonstrations like this. And uh yeah, I, won't go again I won't go too much into, won't go again I won't go too much into, won't go again I won't go too much into, the strategy. So let's just run it and, the strategy. So let's just run it and, the strategy. So let's just run it and, see what happens., So first the version then some stuff, So first the version then some stuff, from Lumiot itself. Um and then we, from Lumiot itself. Um and then we, from Lumiot itself. Um and then we, already see a nice progress bar for back, already see a nice progress bar for back, already see a nice progress bar for back, testing. Um so the Yahoo data download, testing. Um so the Yahoo data download, testing. Um so the Yahoo data download, was really quick and then it says back, was really quick and then it says back, was really quick and then it says back, testing right now and already we see the, testing right now and already we see the, testing right now and already we see the, results. So very quick as well. Although, results. So very quick as well. Although, results. So very quick as well. Although, I think the the data was um was not a, I think the the data was um was not a, I think the the data was um was not a, lot of data. Um, lot of data. Um, lot of data. Um, so, so, so, yeah, I think I think it was just uh, yeah, I think I think it was just uh, yeah, I think I think it was just uh, also a high time frame. Um so not a lot, also a high time frame. Um so not a lot, also a high time frame. Um so not a lot, of data points. Um but uh it still went, of data points. Um but uh it still went, of data points. Um but uh it still went, quite quickly. And um this I don't know, quite quickly. And um this I don't know, quite quickly. And um this I don't know, if it has a pretty print option but, if it has a pretty print option but, if it has a pretty print option but, otherwise you will just have to, otherwise you will just have to, otherwise you will just have to, interpret this yourself. So it has a, interpret this yourself. So it has a, interpret this yourself. So it has a, total return of uh 12% 12.3%., total return of uh 12% 12.3%., total return of uh 12% 12.3%., Um it has a maximum draw down of uh 6%., Um it has a maximum draw down of uh 6%., Um it has a maximum draw down of uh 6%., So that's quite good. And the sharp, So that's quite good. And the sharp, So that's quite good. And the sharp, ratio of 0.3 which is not good. You want, ratio of 0.3 which is not good. You want, ratio of 0.3 which is not good. You want, always at least more than one. Um but uh, always at least more than one. Um but uh, always at least more than one. Um but uh, yeah this is just a demonstration. So, yeah this is just a demonstration. So, yeah this is just a demonstration. So, this hopefully gives you a bit of an, this hopefully gives you a bit of an, this hopefully gives you a bit of an, intu uh intuition how Lumiot uh works as, intu uh intuition how Lumiot uh works as, intu uh intuition how Lumiot uh works as, well. Okay. And now for a quick, well. Okay. And now for a quick, well. Okay. And now for a quick, side-by-side comparison, side-by-side comparison, side-by-side comparison, implemented the same EMA crossover, implemented the same EMA crossover, implemented the same EMA crossover, strategy here. Um and just to illustrate, strategy here. Um and just to illustrate, strategy here. Um and just to illustrate, the syntax of the different frameworks, the syntax of the different frameworks, the syntax of the different frameworks, we have code for each of them. And let's, we have code for each of them. And let's, we have code for each of them. And let's, jump right in. So for frict or fract, jump right in. So for frict or fract, jump right in. So for frict or fract, trade, I don't really know the, trade, I don't really know the, trade, I don't really know the, pronunciation. Um we define a class that, pronunciation. Um we define a class that, pronunciation. Um we define a class that, um, um, um, basically inherits from the I strategy, basically inherits from the I strategy, basically inherits from the I strategy, class of freak trade. Then we define, class of freak trade. Then we define, class of freak trade. Then we define, some um basically static parameters and, some um basically static parameters and, some um basically static parameters and, populate the indicators and then the, populate the indicators and then the, populate the indicators and then the, entry and exit signals., entry and exit signals., entry and exit signals., With not to trader, we also inherit from, With not to trader, we also inherit from, With not to trader, we also inherit from, a strategy class from the framework. We, a strategy class from the framework. We, a strategy class from the framework. We, have a function that runs in the, have a function that runs in the, have a function that runs in the, beginning on start um where we also for, beginning on start um where we also for, beginning on start um where we also for, example can define the some of the um, example can define the some of the um, example can define the some of the um, indicators and also some of the uh, indicators and also some of the uh, indicators and also some of the uh, parameters., parameters., parameters., We also have to subscribe to the data, We also have to subscribe to the data, We also have to subscribe to the data, here. And then when we receive the data, here. And then when we receive the data, here. And then when we receive the data, this is uh event driven. We um the the, this is uh event driven. We um the the, this is uh event driven. We um the the, onbar function gets called and then we, onbar function gets called and then we, onbar function gets called and then we, for example have here the the, for example have here the the, for example have here the the, indicators. We can also define custom, indicators. We can also define custom, indicators. We can also define custom, indicators but it's just done like this, indicators but it's just done like this, indicators but it's just done like this, here. And then um yeah basically if, here. And then um yeah basically if, here. And then um yeah basically if, something um is the case we can submit, something um is the case we can submit, something um is the case we can submit, the order um with the order factory, the order um with the order factory, the order um with the order factory, bit more involved but um you can get, bit more involved but um you can get, bit more involved but um you can get, used to it. So this is a good framework, used to it. So this is a good framework, used to it. So this is a good framework, for production, great, for production, great, for production, great, um workloads or environments basically, um workloads or environments basically, um workloads or environments basically, but it does take more getting used to., but it does take more getting used to., but it does take more getting used to., Quan connect you inherit from uh QC, Quan connect you inherit from uh QC, Quan connect you inherit from uh QC, algorithm., algorithm., algorithm., Um you have a initialize function which, Um you have a initialize function which, Um you have a initialize function which, is similar to the on start of not, is similar to the on start of not, is similar to the on start of not, illustrator and then on data which is, illustrator and then on data which is, illustrator and then on data which is, also similar to onbar of not, also similar to onbar of not, also similar to onbar of not, illustrator. With not illustrator you, illustrator. With not illustrator you, illustrator. With not illustrator you, also have different types of different, also have different types of different, also have different types of different, functions for different types of data., functions for different types of data., functions for different types of data., For example you have onbar. Um you also, For example you have onbar. Um you also, For example you have onbar. Um you also, have uh on tick if I recall correctly., have uh on tick if I recall correctly., have uh on tick if I recall correctly., Um, so yeah, there's of course much much, Um, so yeah, there's of course much much, Um, so yeah, there's of course much much, more to these frameworks and platforms, more to these frameworks and platforms, more to these frameworks and platforms, like Corn Connect than I talk about now, like Corn Connect than I talk about now, like Corn Connect than I talk about now, but just to give you an image of how it, but just to give you an image of how it, but just to give you an image of how it, is to work with them., is to work with them., is to work with them., So then vectorbt, So then vectorbt, So then vectorbt, which to me, I mean, I don't I'm I like, which to me, I mean, I don't I'm I like, which to me, I mean, I don't I'm I like, vectorbt, but to me it looks more like a, vectorbt, but to me it looks more like a, vectorbt, but to me it looks more like a, Python script than um like an involved, Python script than um like an involved, Python script than um like an involved, framework for trading. um but I've never, framework for trading. um but I've never, framework for trading. um but I've never, worked with it. So we define basically, worked with it. So we define basically, worked with it. So we define basically, the um the vector for entries, the, the um the vector for entries, the, the um the vector for entries, the, vector for exits and then just the, vector for exits and then just the, vector for exits and then just the, overall portfolio value gets calculated, overall portfolio value gets calculated, overall portfolio value gets calculated, here. And um that's basically it. And, here. And um that's basically it. And, here. And um that's basically it. And, for Lumiot, for Lumiot, for Lumiot, um we uh initialize again we inherit, um we uh initialize again we inherit, um we uh initialize again we inherit, from a strategy from the uh strategy, from a strategy from the uh strategy, from a strategy from the uh strategy, class from the framework. we have an, class from the framework. we have an, class from the framework. we have an, initialize uh function and then we have, initialize uh function and then we have, initialize uh function and then we have, another, another, another, um type of like it's again like some of, um type of like it's again like some of, um type of like it's again like some of, the other frameworks we have a function, the other frameworks we have a function, the other frameworks we have a function, that's called on every uh trading event, that's called on every uh trading event, that's called on every uh trading event, on every data event uh on every, on every data event uh on every, on every data event uh on every, iteration basically and you can just, iteration basically and you can just, iteration basically and you can just, define um some yeah condition and then, define um some yeah condition and then, define um some yeah condition and then, um you create an order and you submit it, um you create an order and you submit it, um you create an order and you submit it, so it's a bit less complicated or it's, so it's a bit less complicated or it's, so it's a bit less complicated or it's, simpler I I guess compared to notist, simpler I I guess compared to notist, simpler I I guess compared to notist, trader for example where you have a, trader for example where you have a, trader for example where you have a, order factory um but uh overall not very, order factory um but uh overall not very, order factory um but uh overall not very, different all of the frameworks I got to, different all of the frameworks I got to, different all of the frameworks I got to, say except vector BT so here we have a, say except vector BT so here we have a, say except vector BT so here we have a, small um comparison table of course this, small um comparison table of course this, small um comparison table of course this, is all my opinion um we can see how many, is all my opinion um we can see how many, is all my opinion um we can see how many, lines it is for each of them of course, lines it is for each of them of course, lines it is for each of them of course, this also really depends on the use case, this also really depends on the use case, this also really depends on the use case, depending on um for example the, depending on um for example the, depending on um for example the, indicators you want to use for some of, indicators you want to use for some of, indicators you want to use for some of, your strategies whether they're built, your strategies whether they're built, your strategies whether they're built, in. It would of course save you a lot of, in. It would of course save you a lot of, in. It would of course save you a lot of, lines because you don't have to build, lines because you don't have to build, lines because you don't have to build, yourself. Um but yeah, Nauseous trader, yourself. Um but yeah, Nauseous trader, yourself. Um but yeah, Nauseous trader, in this case has the most uh lines and, in this case has the most uh lines and, in this case has the most uh lines and, vector BT the least. Um Vector BT is the, vector BT the least. Um Vector BT is the, vector BT the least. Um Vector BT is the, only one which is not natively live, only one which is not natively live, only one which is not natively live, trading ready. Um I would say that not, trading ready. Um I would say that not, trading ready. Um I would say that not, trader and vector BT have the highest, trader and vector BT have the highest, trader and vector BT have the highest, learning curves. Vector BT just because, learning curves. Vector BT just because, learning curves. Vector BT just because, it's not event driven. You have to think, it's not event driven. You have to think, it's not event driven. You have to think, differently of the back test than just, differently of the back test than just, differently of the back test than just, you get data and then you do something, you get data and then you do something, you get data and then you do something, every event and not trader just because, every event and not trader just because, every event and not trader just because, it's very extensive. So I would say, it's very extensive. So I would say, it's very extensive. So I would say, freak trade is best for crypto. Lumi bot, freak trade is best for crypto. Lumi bot, freak trade is best for crypto. Lumi bot, best for beginners um also good for, best for beginners um also good for, best for beginners um also good for, crypto uh vectorbt for research for, crypto uh vectorbt for research for, crypto uh vectorbt for research for, massive parameter suites sweeps and, massive parameter suites sweeps and, massive parameter suites sweeps and, quant connect and not trader both for, quant connect and not trader both for, quant connect and not trader both for, multiasset but not trader perhaps better, multiasset but not trader perhaps better, multiasset but not trader perhaps better, for production because um it's open, for production because um it's open, for production because um it's open, source but let's talk about not the, source but let's talk about not the, source but let's talk about not the, elephant but a or n elephant in the room, elephant but a or n elephant in the room, elephant but a or n elephant in the room, which is metatrader because metatrader 4, which is metatrader because metatrader 4, which is metatrader because metatrader 4, and metatrader 5 are very widespread., and metatrader 5 are very widespread., and metatrader 5 are very widespread., A lot of brokers support it. So if you, A lot of brokers support it. So if you, A lot of brokers support it. So if you, go off of which broker you want to use, go off of which broker you want to use, go off of which broker you want to use, and whether your broker, and whether your broker, and whether your broker, supports the framework you're going to, supports the framework you're going to, supports the framework you're going to, learn, then MetaTrader is probably going, learn, then MetaTrader is probably going, learn, then MetaTrader is probably going, to be very high up the list as well. It, to be very high up the list as well. It, to be very high up the list as well. It, is very different than Python. However, is very different than Python. However, is very different than Python. However, it's um coding is more C++ like um so I, it's um coding is more C++ like um so I, it's um coding is more C++ like um so I, would look into MQL the programming, would look into MQL the programming, would look into MQL the programming, language that MetaTrader uses um before, language that MetaTrader uses um before, language that MetaTrader uses um before, you do any decision. However, MetaTrader, you do any decision. However, MetaTrader, you do any decision. However, MetaTrader, definitely needs to be mentioned., definitely needs to be mentioned., definitely needs to be mentioned., Another thing that needs to be mentioned, Another thing that needs to be mentioned, Another thing that needs to be mentioned, with MetaTrader is the marketplace of, with MetaTrader is the marketplace of, with MetaTrader is the marketplace of, so-called expert advisors, EAS, which, so-called expert advisors, EAS, which, so-called expert advisors, EAS, which, are basically uh MQL, the programming, are basically uh MQL, the programming, are basically uh MQL, the programming, language of MetaTrader scripts. So, language of MetaTrader scripts. So, language of MetaTrader scripts. So, basically trading strategies. Um they, basically trading strategies. Um they, basically trading strategies. Um they, are basically plugandplay. You can get a, are basically plugandplay. You can get a, are basically plugandplay. You can get a, lot of them for free or buy them um you, lot of them for free or buy them um you, lot of them for free or buy them um you, know switch different parts out for um, know switch different parts out for um, know switch different parts out for um, different parts in each strategy that, different parts in each strategy that, different parts in each strategy that, you like. And also they recently added, you like. And also they recently added, you like. And also they recently added, ONNX support which means that you can, ONNX support which means that you can, ONNX support which means that you can, train a machine learning model in, train a machine learning model in, train a machine learning model in, basically any framework you like in, basically any framework you like in, basically any framework you like in, Python for example and then simply, Python for example and then simply, Python for example and then simply, import it in MetaTrader and it generates, import it in MetaTrader and it generates, import it in MetaTrader and it generates, the same signals as it would do in any, the same signals as it would do in any, the same signals as it would do in any, other framework. Just look into ONX if, other framework. Just look into ONX if, other framework. Just look into ONX if, your uh approach is ML first and your, your uh approach is ML first and your, your uh approach is ML first and your, brokerage mainly supports Metatrader., brokerage mainly supports Metatrader., brokerage mainly supports Metatrader., Speaking of machine learning, we have, Speaking of machine learning, we have, Speaking of machine learning, we have, some honorable mentions of QIP and FIN, some honorable mentions of QIP and FIN, some honorable mentions of QIP and FIN, RL. These are machine learning first, RL. These are machine learning first, RL. These are machine learning first, frameworks. So, not really very well, frameworks. So, not really very well, frameworks. So, not really very well, suited for trading. However, they should, suited for trading. However, they should, suited for trading. However, they should, be mentioned because they're very good, be mentioned because they're very good, be mentioned because they're very good, for financial machine learning um which, for financial machine learning um which, for financial machine learning um which, a lot of quant traders do. So, this, a lot of quant traders do. So, this, a lot of quant traders do. So, this, might be good for training your model., might be good for training your model., might be good for training your model., However, probably not good for getting, However, probably not good for getting, However, probably not good for getting, it into production. So, that was all a, it into production. So, that was all a, it into production. So, that was all a, lot. I have a very nice decision matrix, lot. I have a very nice decision matrix, lot. I have a very nice decision matrix, for you now. So just look at what you, for you now. So just look at what you, for you now. So just look at what you, want to do and then I have a small, want to do and then I have a small, want to do and then I have a small, recommendation for you. However, please, recommendation for you. However, please, recommendation for you. However, please, always do your own research. You want to, always do your own research. You want to, always do your own research. You want to, do crypto trading. Okay, freak trade is, do crypto trading. Okay, freak trade is, do crypto trading. Okay, freak trade is, very good choice. There are also is, very good choice. There are also is, very good choice. There are also is, Jesse which I mentioned earlier. Uh, Jesse which I mentioned earlier. Uh, Jesse which I mentioned earlier. Uh, however it is for live trading paid for, however it is for live trading paid for, however it is for live trading paid for, equities. Quant connect is very good., equities. Quant connect is very good., equities. Quant connect is very good., However, a lot of these frameworks also, However, a lot of these frameworks also, However, a lot of these frameworks also, uh support equities. Um, however, maybe, uh support equities. Um, however, maybe, uh support equities. Um, however, maybe, it's the preferred choice if you only, it's the preferred choice if you only, it's the preferred choice if you only, want to do equities., want to do equities., want to do equities., For a production use case, institutional, For a production use case, institutional, For a production use case, institutional, grade, you know, you have a, grade, you know, you have a, grade, you know, you have a, sophisticated intricate setup., sophisticated intricate setup., sophisticated intricate setup., Multiustrator I think is the way to go, Multiustrator I think is the way to go, Multiustrator I think is the way to go, for the best and fastest research for, for the best and fastest research for, for the best and fastest research for, the crazy uh setups where you want to, the crazy uh setups where you want to, the crazy uh setups where you want to, test millions of parameters. parameter, test millions of parameters. parameter, test millions of parameters. parameter, sets for example then vectorbt is a very, sets for example then vectorbt is a very, sets for example then vectorbt is a very, good choice for ML first um you have for, good choice for ML first um you have for, good choice for ML first um you have for, example from freak trade um yeah they, example from freak trade um yeah they, example from freak trade um yeah they, have their own AI um suite basically, have their own AI um suite basically, have their own AI um suite basically, otherwise you can for example use QIP to, otherwise you can for example use QIP to, otherwise you can for example use QIP to, train machine learning learning model um, train machine learning learning model um, train machine learning learning model um, or use any of them to for example do, or use any of them to for example do, or use any of them to for example do, reinforcement learning but then you have, reinforcement learning but then you have, reinforcement learning but then you have, to implement it yourself and for, to implement it yourself and for, to implement it yourself and for, beginners I think um Lumiot and Quant, beginners I think um Lumiot and Quant, beginners I think um Lumiot and Quant, connect in the web are very good options, connect in the web are very good options, connect in the web are very good options, and again some honorable mentions which, and again some honorable mentions which, and again some honorable mentions which, are trading view which has millions and, are trading view which has millions and, are trading view which has millions and, millions of users however it is not as, millions of users however it is not as, millions of users however it is not as, complex you can't do as sophisticated of, complex you can't do as sophisticated of, complex you can't do as sophisticated of, a workflow with it it's mainly for, a workflow with it it's mainly for, a workflow with it it's mainly for, visual trading um it does have its own, visual trading um it does have its own, visual trading um it does have its own, programming language pine scripts uh, programming language pine scripts uh, programming language pine scripts uh, however no Python support no machine, however no Python support no machine, however no Python support no machine, learning and no portfolio back testing, learning and no portfolio back testing, learning and no portfolio back testing, so, so, so, you would lock yourself into a vendor, you would lock yourself into a vendor, you would lock yourself into a vendor, which does not have a lot of options. Um, which does not have a lot of options. Um, which does not have a lot of options. Um, but hey, maybe it's the best option for, but hey, maybe it's the best option for, but hey, maybe it's the best option for, you. And then you also have Quant Rocket, you. And then you also have Quant Rocket, you. And then you also have Quant Rocket, which is sort of similar to Quant, which is sort of similar to Quant, which is sort of similar to Quant, Connect but enables you to um be very um, Connect but enables you to um be very um, Connect but enables you to um be very um, safe with your IP with your intellectual, safe with your IP with your intellectual, safe with your IP with your intellectual, property because it's all self-hosted., property because it's all self-hosted., property because it's all self-hosted., However, it's only for interactive, However, it's only for interactive, However, it's only for interactive, brokers. So watch out for that. But, brokers. So watch out for that. But, brokers. So watch out for that. But, maybe it's a better option for you if, maybe it's a better option for you if, maybe it's a better option for you if, you want to do uh some kind of cloud, you want to do uh some kind of cloud, you want to do uh some kind of cloud, setup uh than quant connect. Otherwise, setup uh than quant connect. Otherwise, setup uh than quant connect. Otherwise, I've talked a lot about how for example, I've talked a lot about how for example, I've talked a lot about how for example, back trader and vectorbt do not have a, back trader and vectorbt do not have a, back trader and vectorbt do not have a, live trading integration. Yes, not, live trading integration. Yes, not, live trading integration. Yes, not, natively. However, there exists this, natively. However, there exists this, natively. However, there exists this, project called strataq uh on GitHub., project called strataq uh on GitHub., project called strataq uh on GitHub., It's free and open source. And if we go, It's free and open source. And if we go, It's free and open source. And if we go, to supported integrations, we see that, to supported integrations, we see that, to supported integrations, we see that, backtesting.py, PI Vector BT back trader, backtesting.py, PI Vector BT back trader, backtesting.py, PI Vector BT back trader, BT and zipline reloaded fully, BT and zipline reloaded fully, BT and zipline reloaded fully, implemented. So you can basically use, implemented. So you can basically use, implemented. So you can basically use, these research first or more simple um, these research first or more simple um, these research first or more simple um, frameworks for live trading as well. So, frameworks for live trading as well. So, frameworks for live trading as well. So, if you have already started a project, if you have already started a project, if you have already started a project, with one of these frameworks, don't, with one of these frameworks, don't, with one of these frameworks, don't, worry. You can still do live trading, worry. You can still do live trading, worry. You can still do live trading, with it. However, longterm perhaps still, with it. However, longterm perhaps still, with it. However, longterm perhaps still, think about one of the other um, think about one of the other um, think about one of the other um, frameworks. And also look at which, frameworks. And also look at which, frameworks. And also look at which, brokers they they support with strateq, brokers they they support with strateq, brokers they they support with strateq, here. Um because if you know you use a, here. Um because if you know you use a, here. Um because if you know you use a, different broker then you would again, different broker then you would again, different broker then you would again, have to implement the u broker, have to implement the u broker, have to implement the u broker, connection yourself and at that point I, connection yourself and at that point I, connection yourself and at that point I, guess um you could just make the entire, guess um you could just make the entire, guess um you could just make the entire, live execution framework yourself. You, live execution framework yourself. You, live execution framework yourself. You, don't necessarily need strat strate., don't necessarily need strat strate., don't necessarily need strat strate., We're nearing the end of the video don't, We're nearing the end of the video don't, We're nearing the end of the video don't, worry but we have five trends to watch., worry but we have five trends to watch., worry but we have five trends to watch., Soul machine learning machine learning, Soul machine learning machine learning, Soul machine learning machine learning, is becoming more and more important and, is becoming more and more important and, is becoming more and more important and, some of the frameworks have built-in, some of the frameworks have built-in, some of the frameworks have built-in, support like for example freak trade., support like for example freak trade., support like for example freak trade., The other ones you would have to code, The other ones you would have to code, The other ones you would have to code, support yourself. Um so watch out for, support yourself. Um so watch out for, support yourself. Um so watch out for, that if you're interested in that. Then, that if you're interested in that. Then, that if you're interested in that. Then, Rust replacing Python is a very big and, Rust replacing Python is a very big and, Rust replacing Python is a very big and, in my opinion great development because, in my opinion great development because, in my opinion great development because, Python is just much slower than Rust., Python is just much slower than Rust., Python is just much slower than Rust., Um, for example, for event-driven, Um, for example, for event-driven, Um, for example, for event-driven, frameworks like back trader, now trust, frameworks like back trader, now trust, frameworks like back trader, now trust, trader, trader, trader, in Python, what used to take hours can, in Python, what used to take hours can, in Python, what used to take hours can, now take minutes or even just seconds., now take minutes or even just seconds., now take minutes or even just seconds., So this is a big trend to watch um watch, So this is a big trend to watch um watch, So this is a big trend to watch um watch, some of the whether some of the, some of the whether some of the, some of the whether some of the, frameworks maybe move to Rust and now to, frameworks maybe move to Rust and now to, frameworks maybe move to Rust and now to, illustrator is already on rust. Then, illustrator is already on rust. Then, illustrator is already on rust. Then, back test to life par is super important, back test to life par is super important, back test to life par is super important, because you don't want to be you don't, because you don't want to be you don't, because you don't want to be you don't, want to back test and optimize your, want to back test and optimize your, want to back test and optimize your, strategy for days, weeks or even months, strategy for days, weeks or even months, strategy for days, weeks or even months, only to then have to reimplement it for, only to then have to reimplement it for, only to then have to reimplement it for, live trading perhaps even with another, live trading perhaps even with another, live trading perhaps even with another, live trading execution framework or you, live trading execution framework or you, live trading execution framework or you, know making your own broker integration, know making your own broker integration, know making your own broker integration, those kinds of things. Uh that's going, those kinds of things. Uh that's going, those kinds of things. Uh that's going, to cost you a lot of time so keep that, to cost you a lot of time so keep that, to cost you a lot of time so keep that, in mind. I mentioned already strate. So, in mind. I mentioned already strate. So, in mind. I mentioned already strate. So, some of the frameworks which are not, some of the frameworks which are not, some of the frameworks which are not, necessarily themselves ready for live, necessarily themselves ready for live, necessarily themselves ready for live, trading they can be saved with this and, trading they can be saved with this and, trading they can be saved with this and, then also some of these providers have a, then also some of these providers have a, then also some of these providers have a, premium model for example quant connect, premium model for example quant connect, premium model for example quant connect, um so you know if you want the most, um so you know if you want the most, um so you know if you want the most, powerful features also vector BT it has, powerful features also vector BT it has, powerful features also vector BT it has, a vector BT pro tier u which unlocks, a vector BT pro tier u which unlocks, a vector BT pro tier u which unlocks, much more features but if you want the, much more features but if you want the, much more features but if you want the, best features with some of the, best features with some of the, best features with some of the, frameworks you do have to pay and uh, frameworks you do have to pay and uh, frameworks you do have to pay and uh, completely open-source frameworks do not, completely open-source frameworks do not, completely open-source frameworks do not, have that problem. All right, and that, have that problem. All right, and that, have that problem. All right, and that, was it. I really hope you got some value, was it. I really hope you got some value, was it. I really hope you got some value, out of this. Um, I really wanted to, out of this. Um, I really wanted to, out of this. Um, I really wanted to, mention if you're a beginner, if you're, mention if you're a beginner, if you're, mention if you're a beginner, if you're, just starting out, or it doesn't even, just starting out, or it doesn't even, just starting out, or it doesn't even, matter at which stage you're at. But, matter at which stage you're at. But, matter at which stage you're at. But, think, maybe it makes sense to instead, think, maybe it makes sense to instead, think, maybe it makes sense to instead, invest your money in index funds or let, invest your money in index funds or let, invest your money in index funds or let, a professional manage your capital, a professional manage your capital, a professional manage your capital, instead of doing it yourself because the, instead of doing it yourself because the, instead of doing it yourself because the, stat statistics are that most retail, stat statistics are that most retail, stat statistics are that most retail, traders, retail quant traders lose, traders, retail quant traders lose, traders, retail quant traders lose, money. Just wanted to have said that., money. Just wanted to have said that., money. Just wanted to have said that., And otherwise just make sure you don't, And otherwise just make sure you don't, And otherwise just make sure you don't, learn a framework which is already dead., learn a framework which is already dead., learn a framework which is already dead., And um yeah it's about learning, And um yeah it's about learning, And um yeah it's about learning, especially in the beginning and uh yeah, especially in the beginning and uh yeah, especially in the beginning and uh yeah, otherwise thank you so much for, otherwise thank you so much for, otherwise thank you so much for, watching. Definitely make sure you, watching. Definitely make sure you, watching. Definitely make sure you, subscribe as this was my basically my, subscribe as this was my basically my, subscribe as this was my basically my, 100 subscribers special. I also want to, 100 subscribers special. I also want to, 100 subscribers special. I also want to, thank all of my lovely subscribers. I, thank all of my lovely subscribers. I, thank all of my lovely subscribers. I, really appreciate you. Um, yeah, that's, really appreciate you. Um, yeah, that's, really appreciate you. Um, yeah, that's, I I I made this video because the first, I I I made this video because the first, I I I made this video because the first, video where I compare compared I think, video where I compare compared I think, video where I compare compared I think, it was four Python trading frameworks, it was four Python trading frameworks, it was four Python trading frameworks, got such great reception. So, I really, got such great reception. So, I really, got such great reception. So, I really, hope you got a bit of value out of this., hope you got a bit of value out of this., hope you got a bit of value out of this., And if you have any questions, drop a, And if you have any questions, drop a, And if you have any questions, drop a, comment down below and give me some, comment down below and give me some, comment down below and give me some, suggestions. What do you want to see in, suggestions. What do you want to see in, suggestions. What do you want to see in, the future from me? I might upload a bit, the future from me? I might upload a bit, the future from me? I might upload a bit, more slowly. I'm very busy with my, more slowly. I'm very busy with my, more slowly. I'm very busy with my, company, Auto Trade Lab. Um, but I'll, company, Auto Trade Lab. Um, but I'll, company, Auto Trade Lab. Um, but I'll, make sure to uh to upload here still., make sure to uh to upload here still., make sure to uh to upload here still., And yeah, otherwise, thank you so much, And yeah, otherwise, thank you so much, And yeah, otherwise, thank you so much, for watching. Uh, hit the like button, for watching. Uh, hit the like button, for watching. Uh, hit the like button, smash the subscribe button and the bell, smash the subscribe button and the bell, smash the subscribe button and the bell, and um, see you next time.
