Timestamp: 2026-05-22T13:56:37.563092
Title: Cleo Abram - The Demis Hassabis HUGE Conversation (in full) 0000 What is the ha... 2057135587547578494
URL: https://x.com/cleoabram/status/2057135587547578494?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 1:05:10

Description:
---

### **PART 1. 作者的主张地图 (Author's Map)**

#### **1. 核心主张 (Core Thesis)**
人工智能（及未来的通用人工智能 AGI）本质上是人类有史以来最强大的科学探索工具，其终极价值并非体现在消费级聊天机器人上，而在于通过解码生物学、材料科学和物理学等底层的“根节点问题”（如蛋白质折叠），彻底变革人类健康，并帮助我们理解现实世界的本质。

#### **2. 证据支柱 (Evidentiary Base)**
*   **AlphaFold 2 & 3（实证/科学突破）**：成功预测了自然界中几乎所有已知（约2亿个）蛋白质的三维结构，将原本需要耗时数年、耗资数万美元的“晶体学测量”缩短至几秒钟。
*   **Isomorphic Labs 的药物研发管线（商业与临床前应用）**：通过“硅基模拟（in silico）”在几分钟内筛选化合物，并在计算机中比对人类全部2万种蛋白质以预测毒副作用，目前已开展18至19个跨学科药物项目。
*   **AlphaGo & AlphaZero（技术概念验证/直觉泵）**：在围棋对决中下出颠覆人类几百年经验的“第37手”；AlphaZero 在无先验知识（Tabula Rasa）状态下通过自博弈，仅用一天时间便超越了人类所有棋类世界冠军。
*   **AlphaGenomics (alpha genome) / AlphaTensor / AlphaChip（硬数据/专家证言）**：分别在基因突变致病性预测、矩阵乘法算法优化（提速5%）以及芯片电路布线设计中超越人类专家。
*   **SynthID 水印技术（技术先例）**：作为对即时风险（深度伪造、虚假信息）的防御手段，对 AI 生成内容进行不可察觉的数字加水印。

#### **3. 逻辑推导 (Logical Warrant)**
*   **大前提**：如果一个系统能够通过自我学习和搜索，在规则确定的高维复杂空间（如围棋棋局、蛋白质折叠规律、算法优化路径）中，发现超越人类数千年积累的创新解法。
*   **小前提**：物理世界、生物机理、能源控制（如核聚变）和量子计算的底层规律，在本质上也是可以被转化为特定数学规律与高维搜索空间的“计算问题”。
*   **结论**：因此，通过将通用学习算法（如 Transformer 与深度强化学习）与强大的计算资源结合，AI 能够跨越人类感官和认知的极限，直接推导出宇宙深处的物理和生命法则。

```
[AlphaZero/AlphaFold 的成功] 
       ↓ (归纳推理：高维搜索空间的破解)
[物理与生物世界本质上是可计算的] 
       ↓ (逻辑桥梁)
[AGI 将成为破解宇宙终极奥秘的终极科学工具]
```

#### **4. 明确的边界 (Stated Scope)**
*   **适用范围**：科学发现、医药研发、新材料设计、清洁能源（核聚变、电网优化）等具有明确物理/数学反馈机制的领域。
*   **限制与免责声明**：当前的“基础大模型”（如 Gemini）虽然语言能力惊人，但仍存在“幻觉”问题，缺乏真正的长期规划和世界模型；在进入“智能体时代（Agentic Era）”时，必须建立极度严格的安全护栏以防系统失控。

#### **5. 隐性对手 (Implicit Opponent)**
*   **商业浮躁主义**：将 AI 矮化为“聊天机器人”、“图像生成器”或单纯的流量变现工具，从而忽视了其作为科学重器的深远价值。
*   **无序的技术加速论者**：在没有协同安全护栏、不理解 AGI 潜在失控风险的情况下，盲目推动商业与地缘政治层面的 AI 军备竞赛。

#### **6. 预期效果 (Intended Takeaway)**
作者希望读者、科学界和各国政府认识到 AI 的“隐形”力量（如医药、材料、电网优化），摒弃对聊天机器人的肤浅关注；同时，呼吁国际社会在 AGI 和自主智能体（Agents）到来前，像对待 CERN（欧洲核子研究中心）一样，以严谨的科学态度合作制定安全护栏。

---

### **PART 2. 严厉而极度公平的审阅 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review)**

#### **1. 强力重建 (Steelman)**
哈萨比斯的核心论点具有极高的前瞻性：**AI 的本质是一台“去人类中心化”的科学发现引擎**。人类由于感官的局限和演化带来的认知偏差，在面对蛋白质折叠、量子纠缠或高维矩阵优化等极其庞大的可能性空间时，往往只能依赖有限的直觉。而 AlphaZero 式的“无先验自博弈”和“硅基模拟”方法，证明了 AI 可以不依赖人类历史数据，直接从基本规则出发，探索人类未曾涉足的真理绿洲。这不仅是效率的提升，更是科学方法论的升华——从“假设-实验”的缓慢循环，跃升为“硅基预测-湿实验验证”的高速迭代。

#### **2. 最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)**
该论证最脆弱的支柱在于：**将“规则明确、边界封闭的博弈游戏（如围棋、计算优化）”的成功，等同于“规则未明、开放且混沌的现实世界（如生物系统、社会系统）”的可解性。**

> **关键证据引用**：
> *“AlphaZero starts... plays randomly... only has the rules of the game.”*
> *“I thought the kind of problem it was would be suitable for AI one day... Can you predict this 3D structure just from the one-dimensional amino acid sequence?”*

**致命失效模式**：
围棋有完美的物理规则和即时的胜负反馈，蛋白质折叠有相对稳定的物理化学规律。然而，真实的生物体是一个极其复杂的、动态的、非线性的混沌系统。在 Isomorphic Labs 宣称的药物研发中，即使 AI 完美预测了蛋白质结构与化合物的结合键，也无法在硅基中模拟出人体微环境、免疫系统级联反应及长期的系统性毒性。如果现实世界的大多数终极问题（如癌症、气候变化、意识）不具备“封闭规则”和“完美模拟器”，那么 AlphaZero 的“自我迭代”和“硅基筛选”就会在湿实验室（临床试验）的残酷现实面前撞墙，AGI 也就无法如预言般轻松解决这些问题。

#### **3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)**
*   **选择性忽略临床试验的“死亡谷”**：哈萨比斯强调了 AlphaFold 预测了2亿个蛋白质，并提到 Isomorphic Labs 正在进行18-19个项目。然而，他隐瞒了**药物研发中 90% 的失败发生在临床试验阶段**这一事实。AI 优化了前期的“靶点发现”和“分子筛选”，但这只占十年研发周期的极小部分。目前尚无一例完全由 AI 端到端设计并成功通过临床 III 期的药物问世。
*   **算力成本与边际效应递减的沉默**：在讨论 AlphaZero 从早晨到晚上的“进化”时，他略过了背后惊人的电能消耗和计算成本。将这种方法推广到更复杂的“世界模型”时，其算力需求呈指数级增长，这在物理和经济上是否可持续，在科学界存在巨大争议。

#### **4. 隐藏前提 (Hidden Premises)**
*   **假设 1：人类大脑和宇宙规律本质上都是经典的、可计算的图灵机。**
    *   *质问*：如果彭罗斯（Roger Penrose）是对的，即意识和某些生命深层机制涉及不可计算的量子效应，那么基于经典硅基芯片的 AI 是否永远只能逼近、而无法真正理解或超越人类智能的某些核心维度？
*   **假设 2：商业竞争和地缘政治压力下的主体能够自发走向“协同安全治理”。**
    *   *质问*：哈萨比斯呼吁“国际合作”与“安全护栏”，但他自己领导的 Google DeepMind 正是这场“Code Red”商业大战的核心参与者。当生存和利润成为第一优先级时，这种呼吁是否只是一种企业公关层面的“道德粉饰”？

#### **5. 盲区剖析 (The Blind Side)**
*   **“科学理想主义”与“资本现实主义”的叙事断裂**：哈萨比斯在访谈中表现出一种“被迫卷入商业竞争的纯粹科学家”形象（*“If I'd had my way, I would have left AI in the lab for longer”*）。然而，正是 DeepMind 被谷歌收购、以及随后与谷歌大脑的合并，彻底将前沿 AI 研究推向了商业化风口。他试图将自己塑造成“务实的工程师”，却回避了这样一个事实：**他的组织正在用商业化的 Gemini 产生的利润，来资助他个人的科学 AGI 梦想**。这种结构性冲突导致其对 AI 风险的评估（如 bad actors, agents going rogue）带有一种居高临下的局外人视角，而忽略了他自己就是这个加速齿轮的关键部分。

#### **6. 一击必杀 (One Hit Kill)**
> **致命问题**：
> 如果阻碍人类解决癌症、气候变化、清洁能源等全球性危机的核心瓶颈，**从来都不是“缺乏计算能力或科学数据”，而是“缺乏政治意愿、资源分配不均以及社会协同机制的失效”**，那么你即便制造出一台完美的 AGI 科学先知，除了让科技巨头获得更大的垄断权力和财富外，它又如何能切实解决这些本质上属于“人类社会学”而非“纯科学”的灾难？

#### **7. 如何判定 (What Would Settle It)**
**判定标准**：
在未来 5 年内，**Isomorphic Labs 独立设计的一款针对复杂多基因疾病（如某种特定实体瘤）的全新靶点药物，在完全未经传统人工试错的前提下，顺利通过国家监管机构的临床 III 期试验，并在成本上显著低于传统药物。**
*   如果实现：证明哈萨比斯的“硅基科学发现”范式完全成立，AI 确实是破解现实生物学混沌的终极工具。
*   如果失败（或药物因系统性毒性在临床阶段屡屡流产）：则证明现实世界的非线性复杂度无法被当前的硅基模型和封闭搜索算法所穷尽，哈萨比斯的 AGI 宏大叙事将沦为一种精美的科技乌托邦幻觉。

---

### **PART 3. 概念与批判架构图 (Mermaid Diagram)**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    %% 核心节点定义 (使用双引号避免字符冲突)
    Core["💡 核心主张: AI 是解码现实与拯救人类健康的终极科学工具"]:::mainClaim

    %% 科学实证支柱 subgraph
    subgraph SG_Science["🟢 科学实证支柱 (Scientific Pillars)"]
        direction TB
        S1["AlphaFold: 预测2亿蛋白质结构"]:::scienceNode
        S2["Isomorphic Labs: 硅基药物筛选 (in silico)"]:::scienceNode
        S3["AlphaGenomics: 预测致病突变，协同 CRISPR"]:::scienceNode
        S4["AlphaTensor / AlphaChip: 算法与硬件自我优化"]:::scienceNode
    end

    %% 博弈与创造力支柱 subgraph
    subgraph SG_Games["🔵 游戏与直觉进化 (Game & Intuition)"]
        direction TB
        G1["AlphaGo (第37手): 展现非人类直觉与创造力"]:::gameNode
        G2["AlphaZero: 无先验知识 (Tabula Rasa) 自我博弈"]:::gameNode
        G3["逻辑 Warrant: 现实规律 = 高维确定性搜索空间"]:::gameNode
    end

    %% 现实加速与冲突 subgraph
    subgraph SG_Reality["🟠 现实冲突与路径偏移 (The Realist Turn)"]
        direction TB
        R1["原初理想: 留在实验室，如 CERN 般严谨研究 AGI"]:::realityNode
        R2["现实冲击: ChatGPT 爆发，谷歌 Code Red，商业竞速"]:::realityNode
        R3["双重风险: 恶意滥用 (Bad Actors) & 智能体失控 (Agents Rogue)"]:::realityNode
    end

    %% 终极愿景 subgraph
    subgraph SG_Vision["🟣 终极愿景 (The Post-AGI Culture)"]
        direction TB
        V1["破解物理根节点: 核聚变、室温超导、量子计算"]:::visionNode
        V2["星际文明: 零能源成本太空探索 (The Culture 时代)"]:::visionNode
    end

    %% 批判性审查 subgraph
    subgraph SG_Critique["⚔️ 严厉而公平的审阅 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review)"]
        direction TB
        C1["最薄弱环节: 封闭游戏规则 ≠ 现实混沌系统 (生物、气候)"]:::critiqueNode
        C2["证据审计: 忽略临床试验 '死亡谷' (90% 失败率) 与算力边际递减"]:::critiqueNode
        C3["隐藏前提: 预设人脑是经典图灵机; 忽视商业巨头无法真正协同安全"]:::critiqueNode
        C4["致命盲区: 科学家情怀与谷歌商业化引擎的结构性虚伪"]:::critiqueNode
        C5["一击必杀: 危机本质是社会协同与政治意愿，而非计算力不足"]:::oneHitKill
    end

    %% 关系连线
    Core --> S1 & G1
    S1 --> S2 --> S3
    G1 --> G2 --> G3
    G3 -- "试图桥接" --> S2
    
    G3 -. "遭到挑战" .-> C1
    S2 -. "存在漏洞" .-> C2
    
    Core --> R1
    R1 -- "被迫转向" --> R2
    R2 --> R3
    R3 -. "公关辞令质疑" .-> C4
    
    Core --> V1 --> V2
    V2 -. "社会学层面的解构" .-> C5
    
    R3 --> C3
    
    %% 样式定义 (所有文本使用深色以确保可读性)
    classDef mainClaim fill:#FFFACD,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:3px,color:#333,font-weight:bold;
    classDef scienceNode fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#4CAF50,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20;
    classDef gameNode fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#2196F3,stroke-width:2px,color:#0D47A1;
    classDef realityNode fill:#FFF3E0,stroke:#FF9800,stroke-width:2px,color:#E65100;
    classDef visionNode fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#9C27B0,stroke-width:2px,color:#4A148C;
    classDef critiqueNode fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#E53935,stroke-width:2px,color:#B71C1C;
    classDef oneHitKill fill:#FFCDD2,stroke:#B71C1C,stroke-width:3px,color:#7F0000,font-weight:bold;

    %% 子图背景样式
    style SG_Science fill:#F1F8E9,stroke:#8BC34A,stroke-width:1.5px;
    style SG_Games fill:#E1F5FE,stroke:#03A9F4,stroke-width:1.5px;
    style SG_Reality fill:#FFFDE7,stroke:#FFF176,stroke-width:1.5px;
    style SG_Vision fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#E040FB,stroke-width:1.5px;
    style SG_Critique fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#EF5350,stroke-width:2.5px;
</Mermaid_Diagram>

---

Content:
Some things obviously, not quite right about the definition of intelligence. If we play this out, what's the limit here? The best use case of AI was to improve human health. It was the moment I'd been waiting for that could achieve something no other system could. I want to use AI as a tool to help us understand the nature of reality around it. Governments are going to use AI. What would you hope that they use it for? There's two things to worry about. One is... That's Demis Hassabis. The CEO of Google DeepMy. on Nobel Prize winner. He is one of the most important people alive on what is quickly becoming the biggest technological leap in our lifetime. Because the biggest way that AI is gonna impact our lives isn't something that we can see. It's not a chatbot, it's not an image generator. It's tools that are invisible to us in drug design and natural disaster detection and nuclear fusion and quantum computing, tools that he and his team are building. Here he is winning the Nobel Prize for just one of those tools. So who he is and what he chooses to build matters a lot for you and me. And he's fascinating. He's a childhood chess prodigy who at 17 turned down a reportedly million dollar job offer from a gaming company to go to college instead and then got a PhD in cognitive neuroscience. He founded his company DeepMind with a mission to solve intelligence starting with beating video games. He then sold that company to Google specifically because they promised to let DeepMind focus on scientific research. But as this has turned into the most intense technological battle in recent history, Devis is now in charge of much, much more. He's now behind basically everything Google does in AI. He's making decisions that affect your life and millions of other lives every single day. So what is he planning to do with all of that power? My goal is to show you the future that Demis Haasavis wants to build so that you can decide for yourself what you think of it. Welcome to huge conversations. Thanks so much for doing this. It's great, it's very efficient. You already know that huge conversations is a different kind of interview. I'm not gonna ask you about financials. I'm not gonna ask you about your management style. I all will cover those where... Good. What I'm hoping to do in this conversation is think about it more like an explainer that we're making live together. And I have some props. This is not actually meant to be a Jenga game. Each block represents a project or a model and I want to talk about them and how they fit together. So they were meant to be visual aids, but as we were setting up, we started playing Jenga with them and it turned out to be way more fun than anything I had planned. Also, I know that you like games. Yes, I love games. So this is great. First in an interview anyway. So yeah. So my hope in this conversation is to make this explainer together and to help people see what's happening right now in AI really and what is the future that you see coming. What are you hoping to do in this conversation? A lot of the reasons that I got into AI 30 plus years ago now is to advance science and medicine and I've always thought of AI as potentially the ultimate tool to do that so I'm hoping we're going to talk about that today and Really, that's been my passion for what to apply AI to, although of course it can be applied to many things. Oh, this is going to be a lot of fun. Yeah. So in this Jenga game that we have, a lot of these are blocks that people will have heard of, right? These are, you know, this one is Gemini. Right. But I would argue that the ways in which AI is meaningfully shaping people's lives most are the things that are invisible to them most of the time. So I want to start by talking about the project that you won the Nobel Prize for. For fold, yeah. Good Jenga play. I want to tell the story of Alpha Fold with all of its drama because some people might not have heard it. But then I want to get really quickly to the cutting edge of this sort of category of science. Why did you decide to tackle this problem out of all of the many? Well, I came across it actually as an underground in Cambridge. So I had a lot of biologist friends. And one of them specifically was obsessed with what's called the protein folding problem. So proteins are what everything in your body relies on. They make biology possible and living possible. And what's important about them is their 3D structure. So in the body, they fold up into kind of 3D structures and those structures determine what function they have or partially determine what function they have. And so the protein folding problem is really about, can you predict this 3D structure just from the one-dimensional amino acid sequence? So that's the kind of 50-year ground challenge of protein folding. So I love challenges, I love puzzles, so I couldn't resist it from a scientific point of view as this and probably, you know, it was described to me as the equivalent of Fermat's last theorem but for biology. So who couldn't be interested in that? But also when I first heard it, I thought the kind of problem it was would be suitable for AI one day, even though of course this is in the late 90s, we didn't have any kind of AI that would be possible to work on this, but I thought one day that would be possible. And then the final thing was just the impact it would make if you cracked it because it would open up all these downstream possibilities for research and especially in things like drug discovery and understanding disease, so which I think is the most important thing to apply AI to is improving human health. And the reason that this would be huge for human health is that up until now, in order to develop new medicines, we'd have to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars and years of human effort to find out the structure of a single protein by shooting x-rays at it. So we had figured out some protein structures, but it was slow and expensive. So I'm skipping over an enormous amount of hard work here by you and your team. But I think by the way that I'm asking the questions, it is very obvious to people that you solved it. So there's this moment where you realize that it is genuinely useful. And you have solved what had been called one of the most important unsolved problems in modern medicine. And it's 2021, you're in a meeting. I am so glad that there was a camera in this meeting because it is one of the most incredible moments I have ever seen. Can we use AlphaFull to solve it? I think you're talking with your team about setting up a system where scientists could send in a request for a specific protein, like a website and then get the protein folded. And then someone else has a very different idea. Can you walk me through what happens in that meeting? And then your reaction isn't incredible and I really want to know what you were thinking. Yeah. Well look, it was funny that the cameras were there happened to be in that particular meeting. It was crazy. That was that day. They very rarely followed us, but it was for that meeting. And normally what happens for these sorts of prediction models is the traditional thing is you kind of set up a server, and then other scientists send you their protein sequences. And they say, oh, I'm interested in this protein. Can you send me back the predictor structure? So, you know, and that's how it had been done in the whole field for the last 40 plus years. And the reason is is because most of the prediction algorithms are quite slow. So maybe it would take a few days and then you'd get back the, you know, you'd email your email back the structure, and then you'd ask for, you know, you'd ask for the next one. But once I realized, sort of in that meeting actually, that how quickly, not only how accurately we could follow the proteins, but how quickly, you know, in a matter of seconds, and then I was just sort of doing the back of envelope calculation like how many proteins are they're known to science, known in nature, 200 million, and then how many computers do we have, and how many would we need, and then if we fold it one every 10 seconds, and I sort of realized, just sort of in the middle of that meeting, I was fiddling on my phone, that it would be possible in a year. And so why go to all the effort of building the servers and the data-baters, and the emails, client, and all of that, when we could just actually fold everything ourselves, everything anyone could ever request and ever want and then put it on a database somewhere for free for all the scientists in the world to use. So just suddenly hit me, we should just do the word. Now we can really, why don't we just do that? Well, so that's one of the options, like we, right, you know, there's this, we should just write, we should, that's a, that's a gray idea, though, we should just run every protein in existence and then release that. Suddenly, all these things must have been going on the back of my mind and that's suddenly realized that that would be the obvious thing to do and it would be actually probably less effort than standing up the server. So it actually would save us time. And you in that meeting your reaction is something like, why don't we just do that? That would be way better. We should clearly do that. And then you do. All of a sudden this crucial process that had been so hard is suddenly fast and easy. And it's being used by scientists all over the world. This huge unsolved problem now solved. Is it corrects the say that we have now predicted the structure of almost all proteins known to science? Yes, and we keep updating it. So every time somebody scoops a pale out of the ocean somewhere and then there's loads of different types of organisms in that bucket of water, and then they sequence them all. And so the sequencing technology has obviously improved many orders of magnitude since the human genome was sequenced. So now the problem was the structural biology the finding these 3D structures was taking was far lacking far behind the genetic sequencing. So now with these competition resources like alpha-foil 2 we can actually keep up with oh here's a new million genetic sequences from some new strange organisms we found are here with the structures. And so we have a kind of small team at the European Bioinformatics Institute that keeps updating every year, you know, all the new sequences that have been found that year. So we're now, you know, always at the cutting edge like we know what all of these different protein structures mostly look like. That's so awesome. It is pretty amazing. It's especially amazing actually for the people, researchers that work on slightly more obscure, you know, organisms or animals and things like, for example, wheat, I found out, a lot of plants have way more genomic data than mammals and humans, which is very strange. They seem to have multiple copies of their genome and things and it's a kind of strange and bizarre world, I think, the plant world, but my plant scientist, friends and mine, is like, you know, they don't have the resources, like with, you know, human genome as a lot of work's being done on that, but some of these more obscure organisms that are still really important for humanity, like crops and things like that. Now we're able to immediately jump to the science around what they want to do with the proteins, maybe help them be more resilient to climate change, things like that. And they can jump straight to the problem that they're actually interested in rather than getting bogged down with trying to crystallize the proteins that they're interested in. Another boon is for researchers who work on neglected diseases that affect primarily the more developing parts of the world, things like malaria or chaggous disease or leachmonisus. They affect hundreds of millions of people around the world. But there's not a lot of money in that if big farmer try to research that and find cures because they're in the more poorer parts of the world. So they tend to be neglected, the research that goes into that. So there's these amazing nonprofit organizations that do the research on that, but they don't have a lot of money or resources. So giving them the structures of the proteins that are involved in say malaria virus is a huge boon for them too because they can go straight to the drug discovery phase. That was one of the hardest things to figure out as I was doing this research because there's this moment where scientists all around the world have access to alpha-fold. You can see the map lights up, you can see that people are using it. I wasn't easily able to figure out what a great example would be to talk to you about of a scientist using AlphaFold and then that speeding up a drug process that results in a drug that I could now take. What is your favorite example of a scientist using AlphaFold for something the audience might understand or have seen? So over 3 million scientists are now using AlphaFold. We think it's pretty much every biologist in the world at this point. And one actually scientist at a farmer company said to me that almost every drug developed from now on will have probably used alpha-fold in its process, which is sort of mind-blowing really and amazing that that impact it's having. But it still takes time with drug discovery. So we're still mostly in the fundamental biology stage of understanding the disease, what is the protein we're targeting is that the right biological mechanism. And then as I understand it, some of these drugs are now in kind of the clinical trials phase and then hopefully we'll see in a few years' time, you know, a whole dozens of drugs that were partially helped by at least alpha-fold. And in terms of my favourite breakthrough is more that so far has happened with the help of alpha-fold is there's this protein called the nuclear poor complex. And it's one of the biggest proteins in the body. It's huge for a protein. And what it does, a very important job is basically the gateway that opens up and closes to let nutrients come in and out of the cell nucleus. So it's basically the gate, it's like a big doughnut ring and that opens and closes. But we didn't know until very recently what the structure of this was because it's so big and complicated, it's pretty hard to crystallize and actually see. And so almost, I think it was pretty much six months year after we put alpha fold out, some teams used it, along with experimental data to finally work out what this beautiful shape was of this gateway protein. And that was amazing to me. It's one of the biggest proteins in the body that's, and alpha fold was very useful and helping determine in that structure. And so perhaps we can design drugs or treatments that better, that use that somehow, that better access the... Yes, potentially. I think that was more for fundamental biology understanding, but obviously there is, I mean, we ourselves, we've spun out a new company isomorphic labs that actually tries to build on alpha-fold and uses it to, indeed, in this block here, uses it to, as one of the pieces of the puzzle, to massively speed up drug discovery. So on average, it takes like 10 years to kind of develop a drug, it's crazy long time, unbelievable amount of hard work, very expensive, and huge failure rates, you know, only about 10% of drugs actually get through all the clinical stages. So we need to vastly improve that if we want to improve human health, I think. And I think the way to do that is by using in silico methods, alpha fold two being one of those components. But knowing the structure of a protein only wants more part of the drug discovery process. You need a lot of chemistry like what compound should you design to bind to it, all of these things. So we're trying to isomorphic build these. You can think of them as adjacent systems that work with alpha fold, more advanced alpha fold, alpha fold three, alpha fold four, you could call it. And then end-to-end basically create these drugs that have very minimal kind of side effects and an incredibly effective at addressing the type of disease we're trying to help with. And we're working on, I think at this point, like 18, 19 different drug programs across the gamut of things, from cardiovascular, heart disease, to cancer, to immunology. So I think eventually these types of technologies should better help, of course, almost every therapeutic area. In prep for this, I did a background interview with your fellow Nobel Prize winner, John Jumper. He really stressed that it's one part of a larger problem of drug discovery. And so that brings us to the cutting edge today. I've taken some of the examples that I want to talk about. What is the cutting edge now? Sure. So we're building many different components that can kind of go together. So alpha fold is one of the linch pins. So that's the structure of the protein. But if you think about it, let's say you understand what the shape of the protein is. And then now you know which bit of the protein is the important part that does its function. So now, if you think about drug discovery, so say you wanna block the effect of that protein or enhance it in some way, you know you need which part of the protein surface do you have to bind to? So now you have to discover a chemical compound that will attach to the right place on the protein, right? and you want to know how strong will it touch and then on top of that, even more important is, not just will it attach to the thing you're interested in, make sure it doesn't attach to other things because if it does, that will be toxicity. So you don't want it to have the side effects, we call it side effects with drugs. So you wanna minimize those. So but because now we have all of these amazing algorithmic tools, we can sort of do a virtual screen of like, oh, here's a compound, one of our AI systems is designed, it binds, this is our prediction of how strong it binds to the protein surface, and then we can check that very quickly like in a matter of hours, that particular compound, how does it attach to any of the other 20,000 proteins in the human body? And so we can just do it like that within a few minutes and then keep modifying the compound so that it has less and less side effects and ideally none on any of the other proteins, but increasingly strong effect on the one that you want. So you can see I've just outlined a self-improvement process or a self-modification process. And this is extremely fast and efficient if you can do it in silico. And then, you know, on computers, and then at the last stage, only at the final stage do you check it in the wet lap. So you still have to validate it. You can't, you make all these predictions, you do all your search in silicon, but then at the final stage, you check your final proposed compounds in the wet lab, and then check it really does what the predictions say. But that you can imagine would save, you can search thousands of times more compounds, or maybe even millions at some point, more quickly and efficiently that way, and then just at the end, check that they're correct. That's so much more efficient than doing the search in the wet lab, which is what effectively is done today. Oh, one of my favorites also is alpha genome. Yes. So I reached out to yet another Nobel Prize winner, Dr. Jennifer Doudna, who had on the show. Fantastic. And she sent a question for you. So I'm going to read this question from Dr. Doudna. Okay. Okay. So she says, CRISPR, the gene editing technology that she pioneered, can now target nearly any DNA sequence. But for most genetic diseases, we still don't fully understand which changes in the DNA are actually driving the problem, especially in the 98% of the genome that doesn't code for proteins. with tools like alpha genomes, starting to decode that 98%. How close do you think we are to the moment where AI can reliably point to the exact genetic change, causing a patient's disease, so that technologies like CRISPR can fix it? Yeah, what an awesome question. So I've discussed this with her actually in the past, and it is really exciting. I think with alpha genome, which is exactly that kind of technology, it takes the big long genetic sequences, and then it tries to predict, But if you have made a mutation to this particular single letter, single position in the genetic sequence, will that be a harmful mutation that might cause disease, or is it benign? And it won't do anything. And alpha genome, which we just released, is the best system in the world for predicting that. So that's exactly what you then want, if it's still not probably good enough yet, but you can imagine a future version of alpha genomes that are accurate enough to sort of really know, like, oh, that particular mutation, in combination with this other one, that's the hard parts, what if they're multi-genic diseases where there's cascades of mutations caused the problem, those are even harder to detect but actually perfect for sort of AI to try and help with, then you could go in with something like CRISPR maybe one day and go in and fix that mutation and then fix the problem. So that would be, so a kind of combination of things like alpha genome and CRISPR could be incredibly powerful and hopefully one day They will be collaborating with the likes of Jennifer on that. Last year you said something to the Guardian that I found really interesting. You said that if I'd had my way, I would have left AI in the lab for longer. And the quote is, done more things like alpha fold, maybe cured cancer or something like that. From the outside, it looks like the story goes, you found deep-mind with the mission to solve intelligence and use it to solve everything else. And then you sell to Google specifically because they will allow the freedom to explore science in this way. And for a long time, that's your exclusive focus. And then, Chatchy PT comes out, Google goes code red, and you become the head of all Google AI, including the consumer products that you weren't spending as much time on before. And it feels to me like watching that from afar, it mirrors somewhat the larger experience of AI, which is just this incredible change. in the last couple years. Yeah. What was gained and what was lost in that change? Yeah, I think that's exactly right. What you described is sort of what how it felt from the inside too. And for me, as I mentioned earlier, was that the AI, the best use case of AI was to improve human health and accelerate scientific discovery. In fact, for me, I've got into AI in the first place because I was interested in all the big questions in the world, the nature of reality, nature of consciousness, these kinds of things. And I felt we needed a tool to help us, even the best scientists, to help us make sense of the amount of data and information out there and find insights in that. And that's happening, which is amazing. And obviously, AlphaFold was our first and so far best expression of that, let's say. And I always had that on my mind and many other problems like that. So it would have been great, I think, to, and given how important AGI is and how transformative a technology is, maybe the most transformative one in human history, then I thought it would be best to approach these kinds of, the sort of latter stages of building it, which we're in now, in, we're using the scientific method, very carefully, very precisely, very thoughtfully rigorously with all the best scientists kind of in my ideal world, collaborating on in kind of certain like way effort, on making sure each step we understood each step, each as we got to the final goal of building AGI. Seems to me like that would make the most sense with the technology like this. And then, and of course you don't have to wait, so that might take a lot longer, maybe a decade, even a two decades longer, but I think that would make sense given the enormity of what we're dealing with. And then my other idea was, but we don't have to wait till AGI rise to get to start getting the benefits of AI. We could use more specialized systems that maybe make use of the general technologies, the general algorithms we're developing for AGI, but are not in themselves general intelligences. They're narrow AIs, if you want to call them, like AlphaFold, which does a specific purpose and only that purpose. And we could have, we could, and we still are, I'm still doing this, create many types of alpha-folds in isomorphics, while we're building a GI in this careful scientific way, and then benefit, humanity could benefit from the proceeds of that, like cures for cancer, or maybe new energy sources or new materials. And so I felt that that would be maybe looking at this from 20, 30 years ago when I started out on all of this, that would have been the ideal way for it to play out, in my opinion. Now it didn't happen like that because technology is unpredictable and in fact it turns out that things like language were a lot easier than we were all expecting. Even those of us who were obviously optimists about the whole technology and eventually will crack language, but it seems funny to think of it now, but language and concepts and abstractions, things that the current models, foundation models like Gem and I do incredibly well. We thought that maybe there would be one or two or three more breakthroughs needed before we could get there. But it turned out Transformers, which my Google colleagues invented and some reinforcement learning as well on top, was enough to crack things like language. And we were sort of playing around with that, so with the other leading labs. But of course, with ChatGPT and FairPlay to OpenAI, they scaled it and then they put it out there. And I think even they say it was a sort of science, it was kind of a research experiment, they didn't realize it would go so viral. And I think none of us did him. We had sort of fairly equivalent systems at the time because I think when you're building that technology, you are so close to it, you're very aware of the things it can't do, the flaws it has. And you don't realize that actually people out there would find use even though it was hallucinating and doing other things that we're obviously all still trying to improve on now, still not completely fixed. But there's still interesting use cases like summarising things or brainstorming things like that that people use, everyone uses chatbots for today. Now the downside of it is that we're in this sort of ferocious commercial pressure race that everyone sort of locked into currently. And then on top of that there's geopolitical issues like the US, China, race, and so on. So there's sort of multiple levels of pressure to move fast. So the benefit of that is, of course, you get faster progress, obviously. So the progress is just like a lightning speed at these days. So that's good for all the good use cases. The second benefit is that everybody, all of the viewers out there, everyone, you're all getting to use the most cutting edge AI technology, perhaps only three to six months behind what is actually in the labs. So that's kind of mind-blowing. It's also great because I think it gives everyone a feeling for it's democratizing AI. It's giving everyone a feeling for what it's like to interact with cutting edge AI. And what it can do and what it can't do. And I think that's good for society to start getting normalizing itself to what is going to be an enormous change with this technology coming. So it's probably better that we get to sample that in incremental steps rather than it's just a shock to the system. Here's a, you know, there's no AGI, then here's AGI one day. Probably that's not good, although I think there could be many ways it could have rolled out. And then the final thing that's actually on the benefits side is that you can't really understand your systems until they're stress tested by millions of people. So it doesn't matter how good your testing is and you know your in-house testing, obviously millions of smart people trying out things and then you seeing what bubbles to the top the feedback you get is really important for building more robust systems and better systems. So I think there's positives and negatives about how the way it's gone. It's not the way I dreamed about years ago where we would be contemplating this philosophically and carefully considering each next step. We're not in that world. Although I'm a scientist first and foremost I'm also a pragmatic engineer, so we have to deal with the world as we find it and make the best of that. And we try to do that by advancing the frontier, but also trying to be as responsible as we can with doing that as we deploy these very powerful technologies like Gemini and Alpha Fold. There's another story happening at the same time as this, and I want to get back to your concerns and how you weight those concerns and the cost. In order to understand that, I think we need to tell a story about AI being very creative, unexpectedly creative. And that story begins, let me find my Django block, that story begins here. So let's go back to March 10, 2016. There's a very famous Go player that sits down to play against a system that you designed. And at this point, computers have beat humans at all kinds of games. go is really interesting because there are more potential moves in go than atoms in the universe. They go back and forth, they're playing, and then your system makes a move that is so surprising, because it is incredibly unlikely that a human would figure out a move like that. Move 37. And you see Lisa Dahl sitting there. He's just got this shock on his face. He's got his head in his hands like this. And it really was this moment where I think people like yourself saw a head to the creativity that we would find in AI systems that are very different than the systems that we've talked about so far. So there's a category where you're giving a huge amount of data and you're asking to make new predictions and I understand this is much more complicated than this over simplification. But then there's a category where you're not giving data, you're giving rules like with math or physics or games like go. And it has this incredible opportunity for creativity? Yeah. Where were you when that moment happened? And what future did you see ahead? Yeah it was an incredible moment that you're describing and it's actually almost exactly ten years ago now which feels like a century ago actually but I think in many ways it was the dawn of the modern AI era because until that point there were many AI programs that could be world champions at games things like chess but they They were done with what's called expert systems, so they were systems where a team of smart programmers, with a team of smart, in that case, chess grandmasters came together, tried to distill the knowledge that chess grandmasters have into a set of rules and heuristics. And then the programmers would build a system, kind of a brute force system, that would use a lot of compute, like on a super computer, like IBM, DVD, Blue, to be Gary Kasparov, and they would sort of encapsulate the rules they were given by the chess experts. And then the system would sort of dumbly execute those rules, heuristics, and do millions and millions of searching of moves, and then try and work out against those heuristics, which is the best one to do. Now the thing with that is, for me, that was not satisfactory when I saw that in the 90s, I was doing my undergrad at the time, I didn't feel like that was proper AI, because that system, let's take deep blue, okay, it's world champion level at chess, but it can't do anything else. Not only can't it do, you know, language and robotics or any of those kindings, it can't even play a strictly simpler game like Tic Tac Toe, right? So, something's obviously not quite right about the definition of intelligence, right, in the sense of no human, you couldn't imagine a human grandmaster not being able to learn how to play Tic Tac Toe, it would make no sense because it's strictly simpler. So, there's something sort of wrong about its generalization capability and the fact that it didn't learn. It was just given the answer, right? So where if you could ask for something like deep blue Where did the intelligence reside of the system? Well, it wasn't in the system It was in the minds of the chess grandmasters and the and the programmers They solved the problem of chess and then implement and then implemented the solution the the program just done We executed the solution now go as you mentioned is the sort of final frontier for games It's it's the most complex game humans have ever invented It's also the oldest game, so it's just amazing in many ways, and it's also very beautiful. So in Asia, where they play in China and Japan, Korea, instead of chess, basically occupies that intellectual echelon, but it's a much more intuitive game, sort of artistic game almost. So you play patterns that look beautiful, and they turn out to be really strong, which is why the game has a little bit of a mystical element to it, like almost encapsulate the top go players would say to you encapsulate the mysteries of the universe in the game. I think that's how the ancient Chinese thought about it. And also just its raw complexity, as you mentioned, has more possible ball positions, 10 to the power 170, than there are atoms in the universe. So what that means is there's no way you can brute force it in the way that we did with chess. And furthermore, because the game's so intuitive and so esoteric, there aren't really these rules that you can encapsulate, easily, for a machine to follow. So when you talk to a go master, unlike a chess master, they'll tell you things like, oh, why did you play there? They'll say, it felt right, okay? That boy as a chess player will never say that. They would say like, I did it because I'm calculating this, this and then they'll tell you the calculation. So that intuitive feeling is obviously very hard to encapsulate in a system. You can't really program that directly. So it's the perfect proving ground, I would say, for these new techniques that we were pioneering in the early days of deep mind of deep reinforcement learning. Can you use build systems that learn for themselves directly from experience? So in the case of AlphaGo, AlphaGo started by looking at all the games on the internet that humans have played and learning the types of moves humans would do. But then we overlaid it with a Monte Carlo tree search that allowed it to sort of discover new branches of the tree of knowledge, if you like, in Go. Starting with what humans knew and then going beyond that And that's what we hope was gonna happen. So the amazing thing about that match, which was ended up being watched by 200 million people around the world, was that not only did we win the match for one, that was the main objective. But in game two, specifically, it played this famous move 37 that you talk about this creative move that was on the fifth line of the board and early in the game, and it's sort of a big no-no to do that and go, right? Like if you were being taught by a go master, they would slap your wrist playing on that. because it's just regarded as a bad move. And but not only was that a great move, it ended up winning the game four-hour ago. Like a hundred moves, 200 moves later, it was in the right place. As if it sort of presiantly put the stone there. So it was the critical, not only was the surprising move, it was the critical move for later for it to be exactly in the right place to decide the game. So obviously it's changed the way all go players play go but for me, it was the moment I'd been waiting for in terms of building a system that we'd already spent six years by then building these types of learning systems that could achieve something no other system could, you know, this sort of Mount Everest of Games AI, you know, the final frontier, if you like, of Can You Be the Go World Champion? But also, not only did it win the match, but it was how it won. And with these creative new ideas, like move 37, and that, for me, was the signal that we were ready to turn it to scientific problems like AlphaFold. To say this back to you, the reason why it's important that this audience that wants to understand the future understand what happened with Move37 and Go. Is because the implication is if DeepMind can build a system that can do that, it can also perhaps build a system that can play any game. It can also perhaps build systems that can figure out in real world problems, what is the best solution in quantum computing, or in nuclear fusion, or in matrix multiplication, or what else do I have? Ship design. So we need projects. Yes. Exeter, exactly. Could you tell me about the cutting edge here? Yes. Pick one of these systems. What is the move 37 of the surprising creative element going on? I think Alpha Zero is very interesting to talk about, which was the evolution of Alpha Go. So after we won, you know, got to the pinnacle of Go, and showed that it could come up with new ideas, at least in Go, move 37, and actually many other ideas that it came up with, which is revolutionized how people professionals play Go now. We then generalized it further to a system called Alpha Zero, which I think is gonna turn out to be a very important system for today as well, where with AlphaGo, we started with all the human games that we could find on the internet. And also, there were a few other couple of things that were specific about Go that we were built into the AlphaGo system, like the symmetry of the board and things like that. So we wanted to get rid of all of those assumptions completely and actually start from scratch, as if the program and the algorithm didn't know anything about what it was trying to do to start off with. And that's why this is what the zero refers to in AlphaZero is sort of like AlphaGo, but now removing any knowledge, human crafted knowledge, both in the data and in the, any of the kind of heuristics that we've given the system. So AlphaZero starts like Tabular Rowser almost. Obviously it has a learning system, it's gone on your network. We set up the parameters, but we didn't give it any domain-specific knowledge about Go or any other game. And then what we tested AlphaZero on was, first of all, could it learn Go from scratch and then be alpha go, right? So, and we manage to do that. So, it takes 17 evolutions of the program. So, you can imagine what happens is alpha 0 starts off random to begin with. It just, it only has the rules of the game, plays randomly, obviously it's terrible at playing. It creates its own data set by playing 100,000 games against itself, right? And then it can see which moves won or lost. And even though it's playing more or less randomly to begin with, there'll be some moves that are slightly better than other moves, okay? So now it takes the 100,000, we train a new version of itself on version two now of alpha zero with that new data. That version two is slightly better than version one. So now it's not random anymore, but it's not gray. It's not good, but it's playing like okay moves. And then those okay moves end up being better. And so then a version two gets trained a version three, a version four. And so each time that new system gets played against the old system and sees, is it significantly better or not? And it turns out that are at least in go and chess and things like that, around 16, 17 generations of that is enough to go from random to better than world champion. And in least in the case of chess, which I actually once watched live happen, because I was fascinated by, obviously playing chess myself, is, you know, it starts in the morning, random. Then, you know, by lunch time, I could still just about compete with it myself. And then by T time, it's better than all grandmasters. and then by dinner time it's better than the world champion. And you've just seen the entire evolution of that from scratch. And also it's playing interesting new chess that even chess computers like Stockfish, you know, more the kind of expert system brute force ones haven't discovered those types of new types of moves. So Alpha Zero was the full generalization of the Alpha Go ideas. And interestingly, I think we need these types of ideas back in now with our foundation models, and you, you know, Gemini and these kinds of things, which you can think of are generalized models of everything, language, the world around us, not just the game, obviously, like Go, but we still need the ability to search and think and reason on top of those models and sometimes we call those world models. And I think that still hasn't fully been cracked yet how to do that, bringing back some of these alphago ideas, but now instead of just a narrow game applying it to that, but to the whole world. And maybe interestingly, parts of science too. Like material design and things like chip design and quantum computers. All of these cool projects are, you know, so many, I've just, when I see all these bricks, I can't believe we're actually working on all these things. But it's true. And this is sort of the dream is like I get to, I love all so much of, I mean, I love every branch of science. And I get to indulge myself in all these different areas of science because AI is such a general tool. It can really make a huge difference to all these areas. So maybe one example I give is just designing new materials. If we want a material with a special type of property, can we go beyond what is currently known in material science? And I think alpha-go-light processors could be very useful there. And the equivalent of a move 37 would be like alpha-tensor finding a new algorithm that makes matrix multiplication faster. Exactly. Exactly, so you can apply it in algorithmic space, which is quite exciting, because then the algorithm itself gets faster, so there's some circular sort of improvement there. And yes, alpha-10s are just making the matrix multiplication, which is the basis of all neural networks. It turns out everything's matrix multiplication. If you just make that 5% faster, that's a huge, there's tens of billions being spent on training. That's a huge cost saving. And so these are good examples of ideas. And I think we're still early, also things like the design of chips on a die, making it as efficient as possible, the routing. It's a kind of NP-hard problem in terms of the travelling salesman, what's the shortest distance you can wire up all of these things? An alpha chip and programs like that are really good, better in some cases than human chip designers are dealing with that. So I think we're just scratching the surface, I would say, of what's going to be possible in the next few years with today's kind of more general systems combined with these types of ideas from AlphaGo and Alpha0 I think are going to come back. These two categories, the story that starts with AlphaFold, the story that starts with AlphaGo, these are the kinds of AI that make me feel really optimistic. I also think that being really optimistic and you do this a lot in public which I appreciate is fully thinking through the ways in which something can go wrong and what we can do to prevent that. So I wanna insert one other in here. Show, go. Oh, okay. This one. Yes. And the reason why I bring up this game is this is a real-time war game. And in the videos where this system is absolutely crushing humans, you can see the engineers cheering for the victory of their system. But of course, as someone who didn't build the system, I'm thinking to myself, what if that's real? And we're speaking right now during a time when the debate about militaries and governments using AI is a huge topic of conversation. I want this conversation to last for 10 years. I want it to be useful for that long. So I don't want to talk about specific companies, specific terms of service. I also think people are in some way missing the force the trees here, because bigger picture governments are going to use AI. And so what I want to know from you as someone building these systems is if you could wave your magic wand, what would you hope that they use it for? Well look I think governments and governments should be using AI and you know we want to support all sort of democratically elected governments. And I think the things I would love to see them use it for and what we're trying to build our systems to be good for is things like improving public health, education, I mean all of these things need to be rethought. The efficiency gains and the amount of good we can do with it, governments could do with it for their citizens could be incredible. And I think some countries are doing it like Singapore and UAE, I think are leaning into these types of use cases. I would love to see it being used for things like energy like optimizing energy grids. We did that with our data centers and saved 30% of the energy used for the cooling systems. I think there's enormous societal gain from applying AI at scale to these types of areas. So that's what we, you know, I've always thought about and and and hope that governments will pick up and use for and we, you know, want to support all of that. Of course, geopolitics of the world is very complicated right now, and these are dual-purpose technologies. I worry about a couple of views, things that can go wrong with AI, the bigger picture, as you say, I think sometimes the kind of people get bogged down in the details, but actually there's big picture, there's two things to worry about. One is bad actors, whether that's individuals or all the up to nation states, using repurposing these technologies that we're trying to build for good, like curing diseases and advancing material science and energy and so on, for harmful ends, right? And whether that's inadvertently or intentionally. And then the second branch of things I worry about is the AI itself going rogue or going off the rails. as they get more powerful. That's not today's systems, but maybe in the next two, three, four years, especially as we go towards more of the agentic era, which we're entering now. And by agents, I mean systems that are capable of completing entire tasks on their own. So you can, of course, we want those, because they'll be very useful, like as an assistant, or something like that. But also, that means they'll be increasingly capable and autonomous. And so how do we make sure, as one of the frontier labs, and the frontier labs all have to think about this is the guardrails are put in place that they and that we can ensure that they do exactly what they've been told to do or the goals they've been given and they've been specified clearly enough and there's no way of them so convincing that or accidentally breaching those guardrails and that's going to get that's an incredibly hard technical challenge if you think about how powerful and how smart and capable these systems eventually are going to get so I tend to worry about those that you can call the medium term now even though three, three, four years is not really medium term, but those are the things I think people are perhaps not paying enough attention to at the moment. I think will be the biggest issues that we're going to have to contend with if we're going to get through the AGI moment in a way that's beneficial for humanity. Yeah, one of the biggest questions I came in for you with, if I get an hour with you in my life was next time I read a headline, how do I wait the concerns that we're all going to have over the next 30 years. What are the things that people are worrying too much about and what are the things that they are not worrying enough about? Yeah, so I think the two things I just mentioned are the things that maybe the average person is not worrying enough about, but even I think some of the experts and the scientists in the field. I feel like those are the key things that are more societal affecting. that if we, if we, there are other things that we need to worry about too, like deepfakes and, and we work, and we try to help those are immediate term worries, right? Misinformation, deepfakes, these kinds of things. And, you know, we work on this system called Synth ID, which is, you know, a watermarking system. Actually, an AI watermark probably somewhere one of the bricks. Yeah, one of them. And, and, and, we need AI to sort through them. And, and it's, it's, it's, it's users' AI to actually digitally watermark any generated image. So all the things, all the Google technologies, VO and everything else in Nana Bonana, they all have this watermarking technology. So we can detect and flag to the user, or government or whoever, that these are fake. And I think actually, I would advocate all companies working on Genitive AI should build in something, some kind of technology like that. So at least it can be detected or they can detect which things have been built with their technologies. And I think that's going to be increasingly important. But I think that still pales into as a small issue compared to some of these bigger issues around AGI itself becoming very capable. And how do we make sure that, you know, guardrails are put in place that we understand what those types of systems are capable of as we get towards AGI. And, you know, I think a lot more research, a lot more effort needs to go into that from everyone and actually I would love to see international cooperation and cooperation around amongst the leading labs around the safety issues and including with places like the AI Safety Institutes and also academia to help kind of work out how we navigate that next step because unprecedented to create technology like that. If we play this out, what's the limit here? What are the things that you think AI cannot do, that humans can do? You've called this the central question of your life. Yes, it is. And it's very related to some scientific thinking of some of my all-time heroes like Alan Turing. You know, he described Turing machines, which were these theoretical constructs that actually all modern computers are basically Turing machines that are able to compute anything that's computable. So anything that can be described as an algorithm, this type of machine can compute. And I think that the systems we're building are approximate chewing machines. And potentially, a lot of neuroscientists, including me, think that maybe the brain, a good model for the brain, is an approximate chewing machine. So the question is, but there are others, like friends of mine, like Roger Penrose, who believes there might be some quantum effect in the brain, right? And I'm sure you've probably done videos about that. And we've had some very good nature debates about this, but so far, neuroscience hasn't found any quantum effects in the brain. It doesn't mean they won't be found, but so far people have looked quite carefully in the haven't we haven't found any. So it looks like most of what's going on in the brain is kind of classical computation, and so therefore it's not clear what the limit would be in terms of eventually what an AI system could do and could mimic. But you know, I think that's an empirical question. I think that's one of the, you know, the questions around consciousness. I mean, I don't think it's very well defined what it is, but we all intuit what it is. And I think this journey we're on of building an intelligent artifact. I think we'll have almost like a controlled study comparison to the human mind. And then I think we'll see in this journey like what are the differences and what's unique about the mind. And I'm very open-minded about that. I think there could be unique things And certainly unique connections between humans that will never be replicated by these AI systems. But I think a lot of things that we currently are not in reach, like long-term planning and reasoning and maybe some forms of creativity, I think eventually AI systems will be able to do. I want to be honest about what's happening in my mind right now, and it is that I am doing exactly the thing that humans have done throughout history. I am trying to find the reason why we are special. Yes. it is that we have to be at the center of the universe. Oh, wait, we're not. We have to be the ones that are emotionally attuned. Oh, wait, elephants have funerals. Oh, we must be the ones that can be creative and create art. Oh, wait, Gemini can do that. Or like, what, oh, we must be special. Do you find yourself doing that as well? That's my reaction as you're describing this future, are they? Yeah, no, I think we are special, and I think there is some, there's a lot of deep mysteries about how the universe works, and including a lot of the things that are in our minds, but also things out there in physics. You know, I think that's why I got, I think I decided from a very young age to do AI is because I was obsessed when I was a kid at school with the big questions. And normally, when you, you know, physics was my favorite subject at school because that is the subject you're supposed to study when you're interested in all the big questions. And, but the thing was, I just realized, I guess, as a young teenager, reading all these science books and boggophies on the best scientist, Richard Feynman's one of, you know, my all-time heroes, that they actually, although we discovered a lot and we know a lot about the world, there's so much we don't know. Like, this is just incredible. Like, we don't know what time is. I mean, this is insane to me. Like, we don't, we can't even describe something as that. It's just we're swimming in it, but what is it? You know, of course, it's entropy and things like that, but it's nothing, it's nothing satisfactory about what it really is. And, you know, we don't understand a lot of quantum effects, and gravity, population, and consciousness, all, mostly most of the things we care about, but we just sort of, I feel like most people we just distract ourselves all day with, you know, TV shows and games and things and don't worry too much about it. But I've never been like that. It's just, it's sort of, it's these deep mysteries kind of play on my mind all the time. And I think I'm quite open-minded about what the answers might be eventually about what's going on here, the nature of reality, I think that's ultimately what I'm after, and I want to use AI as a tool to help us understand the nature of reality around it. And I'm quite sanguine about whatever the answer might be. I'm not, you know, I guess I'm a true scientist in that sense of like, I don't actually, I don't really have any pre-described notion of what the answer should be. I just want to know the answer. Me too. One way to describe what you're trying to do is effectively this, which is to say, to create a system that wouldn't be especially good at one thing or another thing, but rather to create, as you've been saying, AGI, Artificial General Intelligence, it would be good at it at all. I know you're a fan of Sci-Fi, I am too. Could you play out for me? The plot of the Sci-Fi movie in your head that is the future where you actually do this? Yeah, I can, I think I love sci-fi too and probably I read too much of it when I was a kid, may explain a few things. But one of my favorite series was The Culture Series by Ian Banks. I think it just paints a really interesting, actually post AGI world. He didn't call it AGI, but that's what it was describing, like a thousand years in the future. But I think even 50 years, some of this could happen where we've got through the AGI moment safely, It's built, it's helpful for society and it's here, and maybe we will have it in our pockets even. And we've used it to crack some of these, what I call root no problems in science. Alpha fold was one of those, right? So these are problems, if you think of the tree of all knowledge, these are kind of root no problems, which if you cracked it, it would unlock a whole branch of new research or new applications. And I think there are other things like fusion we briefly mentioned, or better, maybe room temperature superconductors at atmospheric pressure, that you could then combine with optimal batteries and things like that. I think there will be a solution to the energy problem. So pretty much free renewable clean energy, one way or another, fusion or better solar. And then that will unlock us to really travel the stars because the main cost of Elon does amazing work with SpaceX and those things the main cost is still the rocket fuel, right? The energy cost. So if that's sort of zero somehow, because we can just make infinite rocket fuel out of sea water because we have, we've cracked fusion, so we can have, you know, catalysts, plants, and desalination everywhere. Then, you know, that unlocks the really unlocked space and then we'll be able to get a lot more resources because we can mine asteroids. All of these things, the purview of science fiction become, I think, very plausible in the next 50 years. Dyson's fears around the sun, Mercury's sort of conveniently in the right place, actually. It made it with the right material, which is kind of amazing if you think about what's going on in the universe. And then that should hopefully lead to maximum human flourishing. And we help cure all these terrible diseases, so we live much longer, healthy lives, and travelling to the stars, bringing consciousness to the rest of the galaxy. That would be, I think, an amazing outcome and I think could happen within the next 50 years. I believe you. I'm saying things that I, like when you're saying them, I believe you. That's what I'm trying to do, at least. Yeah, so this is my last question. If I were a fly on the wall at my own funeral, after they said she loved her husband and her family and her friends, I would hope that they would say that she spent her life trying to help people see optimistic futures so that they can be part of making them happen, that they can make them happen more quickly or better for more people, or whatever it is that people decide to do with the vision that they see. And so my last question for you is, what do you hope that they say about you? I would hope that they would say that, you know, my life was of benefit and service to humanity. That's I think what I'm trying to do. So that's maybe will be the best thing. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you. be fun. Thanks. Awesome. You want to play Jenga? Yeah, exactly. You did that very well. So yeah, this is actually awesome. I can't believe how many projects we've done. It's really crazy when I saw the break. So they all got out. They have all got our projects on them. Did you memorize what everything was? Okay. So the game is you pull it out and we were playing this. It's unfair to play with you. But it would be you have to say what that project was and you don't get the point If you get it wrong, so for example, it would be no, this is Material science. Yeah, it's a little bit unfair on you. I mean I would hope I would win this game, but But you're probably way better at jingling than me. Yeah, this is what it is one. There you go. Okay alpha code Yeah, that one that one's clearer right code for forces. Yeah for my sense. This is Genetics, but the 2% that codes for proteins. Yes We have to do this now I've got time. I can push back my name. Great. What? I have one more question. You know AlphaVolve? AlphaVolve is coding. Yes. Yeah. We can be used for coding. For ramming? It's combining genetic algorithms with Gemini. So this is our, this is one attempt at doing AlphaGo stuff beyond what is known. So I wouldn't get the point for that one. AlphaPoint. AlphaPoint. Okay. One more question for you then. I'm just going to keep going. Sure. We're still rolling. Okay, what did I not ask you that you think is important for people to know? What did they not ask me? I think we covered a lot actually. Gencast. Gencast, yeah. Weather prediction. Yes. Oh yeah, we didn't cover that. Navier Stokes, I completely forgot about solving. Solving that whole branch. I completely forgot about that thing I did solving. Yeah, so that was one interesting thing is simulations. We didn't talk much about that, or Genie, which is the role of simulations to DQN, of course, started it all off, the Atari stuff, simulations to help you understand some area of science that, or even social science, like economics, that you can't, are very hard to run, either expensive to run experiments, or you can't run controlled experiments in. So I've always loved simulation. Oh yeah, I so, there we go. We're both very competitive, I think. So This is gonna be quiet serious. Actually, in Jenga, is the rules if you touch it, you have to move it, do you or not? We are playing a loose, the easier version. Also, because we were doing a creative thing where you're allowed to push them together, you can use two hands also. Oh, okay, you're not allowed to normally do that, right? Okay, I'll just gonna take this one, I'm gonna cheat without recording it. One of the questions I think people will have for you is if they're watching this and they are very optimistic, Gemini, everybody. Yes. They're very optimistic about the futures that you've described. They have all of your same concerns. They generally have gotten to the end of this conversation and they're thinking, I believe in this future. And I want to be part of it. How would you, CodeMender, I think that finds bugs in code? Yes, I did. How would you advise them to participate If this is all about, I think it will participate in the future. I would, when I do sort of talks at universities and schools, I would say you've got to just go with the flow of the direction. I would be immersed myself in every tool available and just become almost like super powered fantastic, super powered with those tools and those capabilities. Because I think my impression is even at the Frontier Labs, we are, there's so much work has to go into just making the next versions of these Frontier models and then all the adjacent models. So for us like Vio and Anna Bonana and Gemini, even we can only explore a fraction of what the applied things you could do with it, the applications you could make with it. And I think that gap's getting bigger and bigger in terms of like the overhang of the capabilities all the cool stuff and then latest models and that time the release schedules are getting far so far so on that. So I think the opportunity space is getting huge for people who are really expert at using those tools and then apply it to some new domain. So I think a kid these days could probably start a multi-billion dollar business in some ways using these tools in some new way that no one had thought about. And I think things like OpenClaw is a good example of that. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe we should call it a draw because I think I think I don't think I don't think either of us could bear to lose that, right? It's your move. It's your move. Yeah, it's your move. We can end on your move. I will try my end and my move. Go on then. You're gonna make me make your call. I know it's gonna get me another move. Yeah. In 2016 you had a sticky note on your board that said solve protein folding smiley face. Yeah. What is it? Yes. Okay. What is on the board now in your proverbial sticky notes. Oh my gosh. I've got a pile of about a hundred sticky notes. Yeah, what's on it? After check, this is. What's on it? What's in it? I can't actually remember, it will be a list of about 30 things that need to be done by like this evening. So I've been able to get to them. But look great, you want to actually... I'm going to keep going until you stop, so you can stop. Yeah, let us about to, what time is it? Okay, I'll do one more move. But now we're kind of cheating. We're using out the pieces that are already, oh, you're gonna try it out. I'm gonna go ambitious in the last. If I get this one, I get another question. Yeah, okay. That seems fair. How is that gonna balance? Sure, we're not. No. No! Yes, all right, thank you so much. That was awesome. Thanks. It's a great idea to have that.
