Timestamp: 2025-06-23T15:35:19.042548
Title: 意识矩阵的幕后主宰：爬虫人——Jordan Maxwell 详细揭露 BV12xKWz5E7Z
URL: https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV12xKWz5E7Z/?spm_id_from=333.1391.0.0&vd_source=0eeb7ad2c1a37164e848fbfa306683ca
Status: success
Duration: 1:21:02

Description:
好的，这是对文本内容的提炼和总结：

**摘要大纲与结构：**

1.  **引言：核心主题与个人信念**
    *   演讲者长期研究并相信地球上存在爬虫类地外生命。
    *   这种存在对当前世界至关重要。
    *   演讲者基于众多专业人士、政府/军方人员、宇航员和科学家的故事和研究，对此深信不疑。

2.  **对主流机构的批判**
    *   **科学界：** 被视为一种“宗教”，而非真正的科学；受大学、政府和资金控制，保护自身利益，排斥非其自身发现或无法解释的事物（如UFOs，地外生命）。科学家为保住工作和薪水，不愿正视异常现象。
    *   **宗教界：** 与科学界类似，教士们互相保护，推行特定叙事。
    *   **政府、银行、商业、教育：** 整个世界体系被认为是谎言、欺骗和操纵的产物，完全腐败。

3.  **支持爬虫类/地外实体存在的证据与论述**
    *   **个人经历与报告：** 听过许多专业人士讲述与爬虫类外星人的亲身经历（包括一位富翁在科罗拉多与爬虫类实体的遭遇，以及南希讲述其军方父亲的项目和家庭遭遇）。
    *   **好莱坞与媒体：** 电影（如斯皮尔伯格的作品《ET》、《侏罗纪公园》、《Taken》，乔治·卢卡斯的观点）通过娱乐形式评论重要主题，暗示外星人/绑架概念基于现实。
    *   **古代文本与历史：**
        *   犹太典籍（Haggadah）和诺斯替教派基督教文本描述人类的造物主（El-Lohim）为“有鳞的”、“野兽般的形态”。
        *   古代描绘（雕像、艺术品）中，神、统治者、蛇、龙常常带有冠状头部特征，暗示与爬虫类的关联。
        *   人类大脑中的“爬虫类脑”和胎儿发育的爬虫类阶段被引用为生物学证据。
    *   **未解释现象：**
        *   百慕大三角（文中称为Belona Triangle）和亚速尔群岛（Azores/Canary Islands）地区发生的异常事件（飞机/船只失踪、船只被遗弃但无人）。
        *   费城实验据称撕裂了时空连续体，为外星人进入地球创造了漩涡。
    *   **名人事件：** 据称查尔斯王子在访谈中表现出蛇一样的嘶嘶声，被视为其爬虫类本质的证据。

4.  **爬虫类/地外实体的本质与行为**
    *   可能已在地球存在数百万年，比人类更早。
    *   可能创造了人类（暗示人类是其创造物，拥有爬虫类基因或过去）。
    *   操纵人类的宗教、政治、经济秩序和信仰。
    *   非常强大，可能具有模拟人类形态的能力。
    *   不一定是仁慈的，其意图未知或邪恶。
    *   对人类进行实验和绑架（引述Dr. Karla Turner的研究及她的死亡）。

5.  **当前世界状态与未来展望**
    *   人类正在退化，而非进化；古代文明的知识远超现代。
    *   世界体系（西方文明）正在崩溃，因为它建立在谎言和腐败之上。
    *   人类因缺乏真相而无能为力，世界正被“精神失常的罪犯”领导。
    *   即将发生灾难，世界正走向黑暗。
    *   2012年的预言可能意味着觉醒，而非毁灭，但人类可能尚未准备好。

6.  **结论：呼吁与建议**
    *   一切都不是你所认为的样子；世界远比看起来的更深、更复杂。
    *   需要深入研究（“做功课”），尤其是在听起来“疯狂”但可能是真相的事情上。
    *   研究人类的爬虫类过去可能是理解我们是谁、从哪里来、去往何处的重要起点。

---

**核心观点（一句话总结）：**

演讲者基于个人研究和众多未被主流认可的证据，坚信非人类（可能是爬虫类）地外实体秘密控制着地球及人类社会的一切主要机构，并且这种操纵历史悠久，可能是人类起源的根源。

---

**总体框架：**

地球和人类的秘密真相：非人实体操控（揭露主流叙事下的隐藏现实，质疑人类的起源与未来）。

---

**Mermaid 概念图：**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph LR
    A["演讲者信念"] --> B{"爬虫类/地外存在"};
    B --> C{"控制与操纵"};
    C --> D["人类社会/机构"];
    D --> E["腐败与崩溃"];

    subgraph "证据来源 Evidence"
        F["古代文本与描绘"] --> B;
        G["生物学/科学线索"] --> B;
        H["现代遭遇与现象"] --> B;
        I["政府/军方关联"] --> C;
        J["好莱坞/媒体"] --> C;
    end

    subgraph "分析与后果 Analysis & Consequences"
        K["对主流的批评"] --> C;
        L["可能的起源与本质"] --> B;
        E --> M["后果：无知与无力"];
    end

    B --> L;
    C --> K;
    C --> E;

    style A fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#333;
    style B fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#333;
    style C fill:#FFB6C1,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#333;
    style D fill:#FFFFCC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style E fill:#FF6347,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style F fill:#D8BFD8,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style G fill:#D8BFD8,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style H fill:#D8BFD8,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style I fill:#D8BFD8,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style J fill:#D8BFD8,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style K fill:#D3D3D3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style L fill:#D3D3D3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style M fill:#FF6347,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
 We've been looking at the subject. Both Paula and I for a long time talking with the authors and researchers and people and looking through the files on a particular subject that I think is not only interesting, but if there is something to it, which I think there is, then it's really very important right now. And that is the presence of something that we call today, reptilian presence on the earth. We are obviously all hearing a lot about reptile aliens. And David Eich talks about the reptilian presence around the world. I happen to believe that that is true, or I should say that there is something to this idea that there are extraterrestrial life forms here and that some of them may be extraterrestrial reptilians. I've got many ideas about that because I've heard so many stories from so many professional researchers and government and military and talk about this subject with different people, especially astronauts and scientists. So I'm pretty convinced that there is something to this idea that there are reptile aliens on the earth. I've just heard way too many stories, some way too many people who are very legitimate and du jour and real professional people who have told me about their one-on-one experiences with reptile aliens. Happily, I've never come across one, but that doesn't mean they don't exist. I don't throw babies out with a bathwater like our so-called nonsensical, but so-called science community that decides that they haven't found something that's important. If they haven't found it, then it's not important. Only until they find something is it important. Well, the same thing is true in archeology and paleontology and the sciences. Generally speaking, all of these supposedly disciplines of knowledge. We always come up with the same problem. Unless some scientist who is working for a particular university and is towing the party line and know he's worked his way up to the top, top scientist is some big university. Why? Because he has learned over the years what to kiss and when and who. And so this way he gets his paycheck. And so science has become a religion, not scientific at all. It's a religion. And scientists have got their holy books and their holy prophets and their great prophetic pronouncements, which we all see all the time. Scientists making big proclamations pontificating like the Pope. They ultimate, ultimate authority on the earth for everything. And then we find out three years later that what they said three years ago is now bullshit and it doesn't apply to anything. But at the time they were the absolute ultimate authority. And then what they're saying today and another three or four years we'll find out that that was bullshit. And so the bottom line is scientists are nothing more than a religion. It's a it's a fraternal honor. It's like the police protect each other, judges protect each other, firemen protect each other. Well, scientists protect each other and they don't know what they're talking about. They haven't got the famous idea and they're not about to look at any real legitimate facts. And unless they find something themselves that their university can claim and that they can claim that they found it, if you found it and you're not any university, then it's not important. And the bottom line is well, that's not exactly the case. It's actually the case is that if you find something on the earth that the scientists didn't know about, first of all, they can't explain it. They have no way of explaining the phenomena, whatever it is you found or whatever it is you discovered. If the scientists cannot explain it away, they will make up something to explain it away. You're going to be talking about UFOs, the flying saucers, you know, the scientists will tell you, well, no, it's just a flock of geese or just swamp gas and that's all there is to it. And then they were all chuckle and laugh and think that's funny. And then they go move on. And the bottom line is they're being paid a salary. The government's watching them. Their universities are watching them. And if they see something out of place and begin to look seriously at some of the things which are right in front of your eyes, they're going to lose their job. They're going to lose their paycheck. And then they're going to have to go out and go to work like everybody else. So the same problem we have in religion, the same identical situation in religion, the preachers and the clergy, they are a religion to start with. And they protect each other. They are pushing the same routine and everybody, all the other preachers are. So the bottom line is that I've said this before, that religion should be theology and religion should be a science, meaning the extraordinary world that we live in with all of these, for lack of a better term, spiritual things which happen in the world. All these strange and wonderful and unexplainable phenomena that's part of our world should be some kind of a scientific explanation for God or for the universe or for the spiritual presence on earth of phenomena that we can explain. So I'm saying religion should be a science endeavor. While on the other hand, the science world is a religion. They do whatever they are told by the government, by the universities. The finance, by the international elites. Our country is in trouble. Our whole world is in trouble because we are not intellectually honest. We're not very well read. Thank God for the web and for other, the handful. There is a select handful of people in America who are referred to as scientists or astronomers etc. It's just a small, tiny handful that are actually in point of fact scientists. They look at the facts and deal with the facts. And so I've been reading some articles and hearing some scientists talking about. That Stephen Hawkins from England, when he is on stage or on camera and was sitting there watching him on YouTube or whatever and he's sitting in the wheelchair and he's using some sort of a mechanical device, computerized device to speak and through. And he always has a couple of scientists next to him helping him to help him do what he's doing. And then he will speak and then it comes through the computer and you will hear the computer voice. Well, I have heard some and been reading some scientists who are saying that what he is saying into the computer when Stephen Hawkins is talking is not what is coming out of the computer that it's already been programmed to say what the masters who own this planet want him to say. Not what he actually said. You can't hear what he actually says. He speaks into some kind of a computer and the computer translates the words and then you can hear it. The computer is talking and supposedly saying what he's saying. But some of the scientists around him are saying no, what he is saying is one thing. But what the computer has been programmed to put out is something totally different. And so when you hear these important scientists and physicists and all these other highly paid lackeys of the world system that we live under, just understand that virtually nothing that you have been told, nothing you have been shown, nothing that has come out of government, religion, science, nothing that has come out of banking, commerce, educational institution, none of that is based on fact. There is an entire world system of lies, deception and manipulation and implications of our absolutely astounding. This is why today it's finally, finally beginning to appear to the human race that's been asleep for all these years. That big government with all of their big and important buildings and all of their statues and all of the accoutrements of power in Washington, D.C. and the state houses and states, all of this Roman, Gody Roman display of political power and money is now falling apart at the seams. And the entire superstructure of Western civilization, both religion, governments, commerce, science, all of the institutions man made which have combined to call, we call, Western civilization is totally, totally corrupt. There are universal laws that state, if you are building on sand, don't bellyache when the hurricane comes and washes it all away. Well that's what's happening in America and in Europe and now ultimately around the world. The entire superstructure of the world of mankind is now in its last and final days of lying and deception. The entire superstructure as I said of the entire Western civilization is crumbling and it's well that it should. It's about time. And so with that I would then say when you come across a subject like reptilian aliens here on the earth, you better go back and do your homework because if it sounds crazy as probably true, if it sounds too good to be true, it's probably is too good to be true. So I am totally convinced that the world that we live in is being run by entities which are not human. That's my personal belief. I don't think that the people who are in power, I'm not talking about the, I'm not talking about the bushes and the Obama's and all the other good falls. I'm talking about the real powers behind the world scene. I'm talking about the one institution for sure as well as referred to as the Nazi international, the conglomerate of international elite bankers, meaning in secret and Argentina and Europe and in Austria and the mountains. Once you begin to see how this earth really operates and what's actually going on and who's been doing it and who's been at the helm of this for thousands of years even before America was founded. It's just a very frightening picture when you finally wake up to find out that the human race is being led down a dark alley for a long time and now it's finally getting to the point with our technology that we are collapsing like the Roman Empire. But the problem is we're taking the whole damn world with us and the people are not able to do anything. The people are powerless. They all know something's wrong and nobody could do anything about it. I mean you can cry and complain but you can't do anything with it. The reason why is because knowledge is power and I've been saying this for some 50 years unless you have knowledge about how a thing actually works then you're not going to be able to do anything to help it or fix it. That's where we are today. We are now as a human family on the earth being led by criminals, by mentally disordered, dysfunctional, mentally deranged criminals. We call them, we call that government, we call them clergy, we call them popes and clergymen and priests and law enforcement and banking. No, it's a criminal empire. This is why I think that there are the scriptures that we call the Christian scriptures in the Bible have some validity to it. When we read things in the scriptures that say things like the whole world is lying in the power of the wicked one. The implications of the term is that the entire earth is involved in something very dark and it's evil. Well, my God, you don't have to be an astronaut to figure that out today. Every country in the world is now locked into violence, revolutions, bloodshed, money, corruption. It's of course the religions of the world, both Judaism, Christianity and Islam have never had a mind. I would not say they've lost their mind. They never had a mind. So eventually people are going to finally wake up and discover that our world that we're living in is fastly now beginning to now literally fall apart and something very bad is coming on this earth. I don't care how you figure it, it's something is coming and somebody is in charge of this darkness. And somebody is causing these things to happen. And again, I'm saying this because I have totally convinced after looking at it and talking to all the kind of people I have over the years and examining this subject, I'm totally sure that I'm absolutely right that we humans on the earth are being led by some dark of the world, not supernatural, but pre-taught natural. Pre-taught natural means not of this world. Some other kind of intelligence has already here, most likely has been here for millions of years, right among us and they manipulate us, they lead us, they give us our religions, they give us our religious beliefs, they give us our political concepts. Many of us, they have put together our economic order in the world. Somebody very evil has been running for God knows how long, been running as very evil, bloodthirsty world. I'm ashamed to even be a part of this mess right now, but I see it better because at 76 years old, I've been around the world many times, I know what I'm talking about, I couldn't care less who I'm not offending, it doesn't matter who I offend. The truth is the human race is in trouble and it's going to get a hell of a lot worse real soon. You have no idea in the world what's really coming very soon. It's going to be a catastrophe because you've got too many millions and millions of people who collectively have got an IQ of 70 that have no idea in the world what to do or how to do anything. You have to feed them, all they know how to do is reproduce and bring in more babies and more babies and those babies have babies and more babies until you've got 7.5 billion people collectively with an IQ of 70 and the entire world is falling apart. Crime, criminal syndicates, organized crime, government syndicates, banking, I think you finally get the point. The human race is in trouble and that brings me back to my original idea that I want to talk about. This whole idea that the world is being ruled by a pretty natural powers on this earth, something which is not human is guiding us and driving us into insanity. When people like David, I talk about reptilian aliens, well there's a hell of a lot of documentation and religions and governments and all kinds of institutions that have got a lot of information on that one subject. Are there reptilian aliens among us? I would say yes. Obviously in movies, television shows, they're always showing these reptile alien creatures and motion pictures. Again I am totally convinced for myself that Hollywood makes movies based on real things. Steven Spielberg, in one of his interviews a couple of years ago, said that I don't make movies to entertain, I make movies to comment on important subjects. I don't make movies to entertain. Well he's made all kinds of movies about reptile aliens and Jurassic Park and E.T.s and tax and all kinds of stuff like that he's famous for. He's not making those kinds of movies to entertain, he's making them to comment on important subjects. So even the likes of Steven Spielberg feel this is important. Incidentally, if you can imagine how much money it costs to finance Steven Spielberg you can make a 90 minute movie if you can just imagine. If you contract with him to be the executive producer to pay for a movie that he produces, can you imagine how much money it's going to cost you? Because he doesn't go cheap. Well he made a 19 hours television series. 19 hours, somebody finds him to the tune of 19 hours for Steven Spielberg to make a television series called Take It, in which that was one of his most important subjects in his life. This is a concept of aliens taking people, not just reptile aliens but the whole concept of other world entities coming and kidnapping humans. So it was called Take It. Well the movie Take It was actually comes from a book by Dr. Carl Eterna, a lady doctor who was probably the best UFO researcher in the world. For that concern she was top of every life. All the best UFO researchers, but Dr. Carl Eterna was in my opinion, she was a doctor of some kind of a doctor before, but she got into the alien abduction subject and her work was just phenomenal. She did some serious work on this whole subject of alien abduction. She began to get into the connections between the US government and alien presence and how the US government is working directly with the aliens. Soon after that she was found dead and her husband died later. Immediately after that came out she started talking publicly about the fact that the US government is dealing directly with aliens and allowing these aliens to kidnap children, to kidnap people, to not humans, and are using them for experiments. She was found dead. When you were there? I'm not sure too many years ago. I still have her lectures. As a matter of fact her lectures are on a web right now just go to Google video and type in Dr. Carler K-A-R-L-I, Carl Eterna. I listened to her and told me if it doesn't run, she'll shut up and down, you'll just find a list of those ladies. She's very, very knowledgeable. She knew she was talking about it. She's talking about the fact that when you hear people talking about these aliens, some of them being kind and good to us and said to her, she said, you better go back and do your homework. This whole entire scenario of alien presence are entities from somewhere else who have come here into your planet, into your life. We don't know what their objective is or what their objects are. It's foolish to think that any of them are dear and good and benefactors. We don't know who they are or where they come from. Undoubtedly people in government know. But they're not talking. Well she found out a lot in us when she's dead. But as I said, Hollywood is telling us a lot of things about the world and they put it into movies. And so the reptile alien has been around for a long time at TV shows. And even more so, this was in time machine. So reptile aliens, and then of course as you know in both V, the first movie V and the second one, these were reptile aliens who presented themselves as beautiful people, highly intelligent, very highly advanced. And the humans were taken in by them, humans wanting to be on the side of the winter. So, and if you remember I talked about the dawn of a new day in one of my videos and in V the second one they talked about, exactly what I was saying they were going to say, they said in V that there was a dawn of a new day in which the whole world was coming under a new world order. And I've said for years that this symbol for the new world order was a dawn of a new day and I had a video came up and talked about that months before this came out. So there is something to an idea that Hollywood and government, military, are totally aware that there is an alien connection going on right now in point effect and Hollywood is putting it out into movies, military is doing it undercover and government is acting like there's nothing to it at all. But I think that there's something very, very frightening going on. I think we are being invaded. No concept of the reptile aliens look like humans. Well that's not new. I mean that's even in the Bible. The Bible says God being banned in his own image and likeness. And I've talked to all of them. I've talked to so many rabbis about this subject. First of all the word God in the Bible and Genesis 1 and 1 when it says in the beginning God created happens in the earth. The word God is El-Lohim. It's a feminine plural. It's not one God. It's God's more than one. And then when you get into what kind of God's well they were supposedly according to Hebrews they had scales. They were scaling God's the El-Lohim who created us. So we can talk about that too. I've got a lot of stuff on that. The whole idea is that these reptile aliens are in motion pictures. They're in sci-fi magazines. Of course they're everywhere. And almost all of them have a ridge on their skull. A raised plaids are ridge on their head. I thought that was interesting a long time ago and I picked up on that and started doing some research on that. That this ridge are this raised part on the head of the skull. I mean all of our stories coming out of the Bible showing reptile aliens. So we've got to have a long pass of humans intervention with aliens. Here in the garden of Eden with Adam and Eve you'll see the serpent is up right, standing up right, conversing with Eve alien into action and into play between aliens and humans. When Hebrew Jewish source on the Bible says we're Adam and Eve human. We're all familiar with the Old Testament account of Adam and Eve and the Garden of Eden and how they ate the forbidden fruit. But what is not widely known is that there were other ancient religious documents that describe this event and tell us of a different and startling story. And the Jewish writings, the Haggata, the well spring of Jewish oral tradition says the first result was that Adam and Eve became naked before their bodies had been overlaid with a horny skin and enveloped in a cloud of glory. And then it goes on to say no sooner has they violated a command giving them then the cloud of glory than their horny skin dropped from them. And it talks about the second quote was from another source. This is a Christian Gnostic text. It talks about how now Eve believed the words of the serpent. She looked at the tree and she took some of its fruit and ate and she gave her husband also and he ate too. Then their mind opened and they ate and the light of knowledge shown for them. They knew that they wouldn't make it in regard to knowledge. And when they saw their makers, when they saw their makers they loathed them. Since they were beastly forms they understood very much. So even in the old Gnostic Christian text talking about the makers of the creators of mankind were beastly and form. And that's the case then we were made the image and likeness of our creator. So when we were made the Jewish writings they had horny skins. And so ancient world always showed kings and rulers and princes connected to serpents, serpent queens. Some of the scientific books are theorizing at the dinosaurs. Now another were able to evolve into other kind of creatures over millions of years. So Lawrence Gordon wrote quite a few books, large books about the bloodlines of the Holy Grail, about Jesus, bloodlines, etc. And a very famous author and I knew him well we did some lectures together. Well I found out later that Nicholas D'Ivery was a co-author in Europe with so Lawrence Gardiner. But Lawrence Gardiner didn't tell Americans that most of the knowledge that Lawrence Gardiner was bringing out in his books that we were reading here about the bloodlines of the royalty of Europe and the royalty of the bloodlines of Jesus and all that kind of thing. He was getting a lot of his information from Nicholas D'Ivery who was a grand master in the Dragon's Court in Europe. A secret society, a very powerful ancient old order where they worshipped the dragon, the reptile alien gods. And this was a very legitimate society. And this is what was his name and what they called him, Bloodly of Pailar. Who was this? What was the term they gave him? Dracula. Dracula was actually a real man. He was a prince and he was very bloodthirsty. But he belonged to and at the time Dracula was the head of the Dragon's Court today. Nicholas D'Ivery is the head of the Dragon's Court. And so Nicholas talks about his book is called The Dragons Legacy, the Secret History of the Ancient Bloodlines. And the bottom says he's a grand master in Muriel Royal Dragon's Court. And so as I said, he writes a lot about the concept of the reptile aliens who had ruled Europe behind the scenes. Wouldn't surprise me. Of course in statues all over the world, statues of aliens, reptile aliens. I saw this one in England when I was in England speaking on tour. I went to a UFO exhibit. The sky had an incredibly museum of all kinds of reptile aliens. And on the back wall he would have the quotes from the reference books, from the Bible and reference books describing what he was seeing. So it wasn't like he was making these up. He was just showing you where this information came from and then design creatures that looked like what was on the document. And you'll see the connection between the ancient reptile dinosaurs and what the humans and evolved could possibly look like. And as I said, their statues all over Europe and implying that humans are being dominated by reptile aliens. But the photo also pictured as a reptile in Mexico. This is in, I think it's in Finland. I think it's in Finland. The eyes, the eyes of reptile aliens and reptiles, first of all, reptile eyes. The large eye aliens that we are told and the ancient people made statues of these alien creatures they sent they saw. Here's one from Kosovo going back to the Neolithic period. You see it looks like an alien with the skin, the eyes. Why would these ancient people make representation of these creatures that they saw and they looked like reptiles? Because it very well might have been reptiles. This from Sumeria, the Old Babylonian, Akkadian, Sumeria, area of the world, Middle East. And literally a reptile head, reptile eyes, Lord of the Ring makes the reptile eyes. That's pretty extraordinary stuff when you think about the possibility that maybe there had been for thousands of years before humans were on the earth. This may have been and have to buy a reptilian race. The human brain, with inside the between the two loads of the human brain down the middle, there's something called the reptilian brain. I've talked to doctors about this and they say, yeah that's the correct term to use. There's a part of the human brain between the two loads in the middle called the reptilian brain. And they say that when a human is developing in the womb, that it develops like a reptile. It has a tail, it has all the country of a reptile lizard or whatever and then it begins to fill out and become more human. But when it's actually in the formative stages, it looks like a reptile. And then of course we have a reptilian complex in the brain. It's called the reptilian complex in the brain. So you've got to wonder why would science and medical science call this area in the brain the reptilian. Also in comic magazines obviously, all kinds of comics over the years have always shown reptiles actually at war wearing uniforms so they're not just animals, they are actually intelligent creatures as text in my house. The strange crescent heads that I talked about, these strange crescent heads, is what caught my attention many, many years ago. As a matter of fact, I did a video on this quite a long time ago. And I think it's so important I'm redoing it. The same idea, this trusted head, this crest on the heads of reptiles and birds also. Birds are connected to the reptile world. So when you see these reptiles with these crusted heads, I picked up on this as I said many years ago thinking about this and wait a minute. The heads, here's a skull, you see the crest is a natural part of the skull, natural part of the skull. This is not that important because we see it in all the reptiles until you start applying it to humans. Now once we've established this reptilian trait in reptiles, here is called a helmeted lizard which you'll see the reptile connection between the reptile alien and the lizard with the crusted head. And as we saw just before, from Sumeria, in Sumeria you'll see the reptile god of many women, crusted heads. The heads of these figurines were styled by some, they looked reptilian, lizard headed. And I'm just of the opinion that people back in the little thingship world, you know, were not dreaming yourself for Hollywood. They were just making statues of things they've actually seen. So I would be, as I said, would be a bit surprised if there are and has been on this reptile, intelligent reptilian creatures on this earth. That's what our ancient ancestors were trying to tell us. But this crest that had bothered me because I see it in not only magazines and cartoons, but then you begin to see it in everywhere. This crest on the heads of these aliens, and they're always green, the reptilian. Then here's a giant statue in Persia with the crusted head, prehistoric pictures drawn on walls with the crusted heads. This is a disc that was found in the Middle East. And on this disc, a lot of interesting symbols on this disc, but one of them is a man with the crusted head dress. And of course here in Aztecs and Amayas, they have their gods with this crested head. And here's a deity, a serpent having a plume on his head. So the more I got into this whole idea, this plume or crested head on these gods, and there's a serpent with the symbol too. Aztecs and Amayas also have their gods with their crested head dresses, which is implying, in my mind, that there's some connection between that normal thing which we see on reptiles and it's applying it to humans. And here's one of the ancient gods of the Assyrians with that same idea of the crusted head dress by a crusted head. In Africa, one of the gods, modern day, and then of course the Greeks and the Romans, their helmets with crested head dresses. So when you think about how this whole idea of this crested head has matured through the ages for thousands of years, and even the Mohawk Indians, the Mohawks had the same style pressed head dress. So I've again to suspect that there might be something to this idea of a connection between heroes and Hawaii with gods with the rest of him. But what is the connection with this symbol of the powerful gods and all the different nations of the world? And of course, and that's in Hawaii, but then of course you have in Tibet, the Tibetans also have the same idea. So the question has to be asked, if is it possible that there has been some kind of a big flight interfacing of humans with exeterrestrials and rutalityals? I think so. I think that's what's happened. And I think they're here now. I'm totally sure because I've heard it was, I said, way too many stories about the idea that they are here, but they don't necessarily show themselves to everybody. If there's a period to us, which obviously they are, because they've been here millions of years before we got here, or they come here from somewhere else, and we haven't gone there, so there's a period to us, wherever they have come from. And when you look into Skin Walker Ranch, which I started talking about before, and the stuff is actually happening right now today at Skin Walker Ranch with these kind of reptile aliens showing up on people's property. They have pictures of them. They're having confrontations with these reptile aliens. Scientists have been out there, and newspeople have been out there, so they do exist. So you've got to explain them somehow, either they're into dimensional beings, or they're coming from somewhere else, or they've always been here. Maybe we're the new guys on the block, and they've always been here. And we've heard all these stories about underground installations, and underground military operations with reptile aliens. I've heard all kinds of stories from military people about that. So I would not be a bit surprised if we are being visited by other entities from other places in the universe, and we have been for a long time. It's just that we're so busy with our everyday lives. We don't take notice. But once in a while, as I said, things will start to happen for you, personally. It sounds crazy to people that I haven't experienced. But once you've had an experience with something other world, and then it becomes very plausible that something is happening here. If you see something in your bedroom, or see an angel, or spirits, poltergeist, demons, whatever, it just implies that your physical world is not the only one that's here. There's something else going on while you're here. Christians know about it, the Jewish traditions know about the Hindus, and all the other ancient religions of the world talk about the reptile aliens and the gods who created us and all that kind of thing. All I'm saying is the only thing I want to really drive home in this presentation is the fact that there's a very good possibility that humans have a reptilian past, and that they, whoever it is, has created us very well could be a reptile in principle, and have been able to evolve or recreate themselves and are using us today. That's why when I talk with David Eich about this, he had never heard the concept. I said, I'm not saying it's true, I'm just saying we're looking at all the evidence, it begins to look like there's something going on here. So I am of the opinion that there's, as I said so many times, that nothing you see in this world is what you think it is, nothing. You're looking at things that you think you understand, and it's not true at all. I mean our courts do not do what they say they do, the police are not here to do what they say they do, the government does not do what it says it's going to do. Nothing is what you think it is. It's far, far bigger and far deeper. And again, when you get people like Steven Spielberg doing 19-hour television series on a concept of aliens kidnapping humans, he must believe that pretty bit to do 19 hours. It's called Take It, you can buy it in the stores. And I don't know if you know this or not, but George Lucas was on television with Spielberg not too long ago, and he said that they were talking about 2012, December 2012, and it was Lucas's opinion, not Spielberg, but Lucas said, and it was his opinion that 2012 December was the end of the world as far as he was concerned, the whole world was going to be destroyed. Somehow or another there was going to be some cataclysmic event that all life on the earth is all going, it's all going to be gone. And when he said that Spielberg raised his eyes to say, you know, well, you know, it's not me. I didn't say that. But to have somebody like George Lucas state that public that he believes he's not stupid. And he said, I've totally convinced that December of 2012 the human race is finished, where it is all gone. And what was in the movie is going to be child's play, that what's coming. Well, I don't know. I have no idea. My gut feeling is that 2012 is not going to bring destruction, it's going to bring an awakening. I think it's going to bring some kind of a spiritual awakening that people are not ready for. I don't think people, generally speaking, want to be awakened. So I think that whoever it is that has control over us and our minds, and obviously somebody does, because somebody is running the whole planet. And no matter how crazy we are, no matter how violent we are, and how stupid we are, the whole world seems to work. Somehow or another, it seems to work with all the wars and crime and violence and drugs and shooting people. But the whole world continues to operate, and the rich get richer and the poor get poorer and things go on. I basically boils down to the fact that I believe that we are created, we are somebody else's creation. We have been created as an entity by someone else. And whoever it is that has created us, they're not human, obviously, because we're trying to catch up on the science that the Egyptians have, we can't even understand. So that's another important part about history, is that we're not gaining, we're not evolving. We are devolving. We're not getting smarter as we go. We're getting stupider as we go. Because when you look at the ancient world, and I do mean the prehistoric and ancient world, they knew and understood technology that we can't even figure out today. We're still trying to figure out how the ancient Egyptians, the Sumerians, the Babylonians, the Acadians knew what they did, how they could figure out the universe, they knew how much the sudden weight they wrote down, how the distance between the different planets and how much of the earth was, how much weight. They were on and on and on, writing about all kinds of strange things that we don't even understand today. And so much about our cult sciences are based on the ancient Hindus, the Sumerians, that we're trying to study what those people were talking about. Obviously, they look far advanced than we were, and that we've been getting dumber as we go down the line. So that today, it's an extraordinary situation, and all over the world, people are totally ignorant, ill-informed, unread, dim-witted, and if you try and present something which is out of the ordinary, you're going to be looked at as, it must be an al-Qaeda agent or an anti-soul. Yeah, it must be something wrong with you, because everybody knows the important things people need to talk about and think about is dancing with the stars and football and all the help of some of the games that our masters give the children to play with. But if you're serious-minded about where we came from and who created us and where we're going, I think looking at this whole idea of reptilian past might be a good place to start. I was told about ten different stories of reptilian people who have had reptilian connections, and each one of those stories was phenomenal. Each one, as I said, was very, very powerful story, but very powerful people. And one of them was a very wealthy man in Las Vegas who buys his cell hotels and gammettias in Los Cun I was doing a radio show in Las Vegas and he called me after the show and told me of his experience and he said every year they go on a vacation somewhere and he said then this was a 1989 when I got the phone call and he said last year which was in 1988, he said last year we went to Colorado and we were backpacking and camping in Colorado, eight families and he said we're out in the middle of nowhere, camping and he says then one morning we got up we broke camp and we went up to the top of a ridge to overlook the valley and down in the valley was a cleared off round area where someone had cleared off the trees and everything was around area and we saw a circle of people standing in the valley all of them holding hands in a circle and they were chanting and swaying back and forth and chanting some kind of a ritual and there was a priest or someone in the middle and he said well we put a piece of over to see them we broke on the ground with looking down on them all of a sudden in that circle appeared another entity he just popped in much bigger than the person that was there and it pointed out at us and the chanting stopped all the seeming stopped and everyone looked it up and pointed up at us and he said we didn't know what to think of this but happily we're out here in the mountains and we're getting out of here quick and he said so we turned around to leave and there was a reptile alien standing behind us and the one that came in was a reptile alien standing directly behind us and he said well we turned around to leave this thing stood there looking at us that's how fast it moved and he said and the children everyone was paralyzed you couldn't move you couldn't cry you couldn't move you couldn't do anything he said everyone agreed that the most they could do is just draw breath to stay alive that's all they could do they could not speak couldn't do anything even the children could do nothing and he said we were all paralyzed and looking at this thing and he said this reptile alien looked at us he said about seven foot tall maybe taller was extremely muscular kind of reptile head reptilian body and he said but it just looked at us and it said to us telepathically we understood it correct me said I'm gonna let you go but what I do you better get out of here because you've interrupted my you know my ritual and so when you said that the reptile alien turned and then he turned back around and looked at it one more time to emphasis now you better leave and he said when I turned you went it was gone instantly it was just oh it's gone and he said when it left the incident left the light came back at everybody the women were screaming the children were red screaming everybody he's including the men we were running back to the car we didn't have any time and he's a today all the a-guy still worked for me that's something we're all Christians we've never ever seen anything I heard anything like that in our life but we've all sought all families all the children everyone sought so he told me so when you're talking about reptile aliens I got news for you where there's at least one we know it doesn't color up so I'm saying that that's just one of about ten stories I've heard there's another story out there that's on the web you really should listen to her name is Nancy she's a sweet lady and a friend of mine named Nancy her father she's probably one of the most interesting people I've run into in my life because I can sit and talk with her for hours and name's Nancy she's her father was an official with the Air Force he worked in what she called project retrieval oaths which was anytime UFOs came down anywhere in the world I didn't know this but she told me that anytime UFO activity happens anywhere on the earth the United States Air Force is in charge I don't care if it comes down in Russia they have to call the United States Air Force they do not send the Russian Air Force they call the US Air Force if it comes down in China or Africa doesn't matter where it comes down you call the US Air Force period which tells me that with all those harsh bars about politics the US is the boss period bottom line and you may say what you want to about it but we have the army we got the guns we got the money and we are the boss period we catch you doing something that you weren't told that's why the UN is in New York the Empire state this is the empire we own it and so so the whole idea is that she said that her father was head of project retrieval oaths and that he wouldn't and there was a situation that no matter where they went in the world she said I was never in one place too long we traveled all over the world where my dad was stationed and she said wherever it is that we live we almost always lived on a base and she said and she she went and told me about all kinds of reptilian stories there are father told her and she said well when we always had two telephones and one was a red telephone and when that phone rang you would never to answer that phone if the phone rings it would only ring a couple of times it was not to be answered it was a tip off when that red phone rings that means your father has with them five minutes to be prepared dressed with a briefcase ready to go because in five minutes from that telephone ring the military would pick him up and she said I've been there many times when that happened the military who unlocked on the door would say nothing there were no words spoken at all everybody knew what they had to do and he would just walk open the door go down to the car get in the car and drive off and when they would drive off four other military guys would come on the property even though it's on the base would come on the property on four corners of the house and stay there until the father got home if it was a week or two weeks or a month every morning all night there would be four guys guarding the house even on the on the military property and she said that one night she always wanted to be left by herself and the father would never allow her to be left anywhere by herself and you'll hear this on her on her if you go on the well to audio to the video and then put in reptilian aliens Nancy I think it is and listen to her tell the story but she said one night she asked her mother because the mom and dad was going next door to a party and she asked her mom and dad she could stay by herself in the house and her father said no so she loaned to her mom and a mother talked to father until that day and so he agreed because the mother wanted it so he agreed and so when she said well they left a little while after they left she said I was in my bedroom combing my hair looking in the mirror and she said that my closet door was like a french door opening on the closet she said well it's combing my hair a reptile alien stepped out of the closet but he had to step down to get alphabanda and they had her and he stood up almost touching the ceiling and looked at her she said I'm looking at the mirror looking at this thing and it's looking at me and she said it began to move toward me without walking it just began to float slowly toward me and she said I got the feeling it's like coming up on a fly you know so she said I got up and ran down the hallway and ran into the bathroom through the window open shut the door and started screaming bloody murder and she said everybody in the neighborhood heard and everybody come running to the house she said when I opened the window I heard this thing come down the hall it was very heavy you could hear it won't become down the hall and it began growling and scratching on the door and growling like an animal and scratching on the door and she said and when my dad and all the guys came in come running up they were all yelling and coming right up to the house the same turn around and ran back into the bedroom and the father came in with the other people and they've got her out and the door she said was just clogged so this thing was was a material preacher it wasn't just a vision and she said that the father told the mother this is why I never wanted her to be left alone because he reptile aliens have told us they're tired of the air force coming to put their nose in our business every time something happens with us you guys come out put your nose in our business so he said they told me the next time you go out to put your nose in our business we're going to come visit your daughter so just know that when you come out put your nose in our business we go send one to put out nose in your business and he said they they could have killed her they didn't they didn't kill her they weren't to scare the family let the family know you know what we could have done this is a warning so that was scary just hearing that story and I like I said I got about eight or nine more of it so all these stories seem to as far as I'm concerned imply that there is some kind of a reptilian path that's why I don't have any problem with it as I said I've never seen one if you have any questions about it I don't know they'll have any answers but if you have any questions about the general subject but I'm totally convinced that we are in the creation of somebody who has created us and we look like them you know there are insects that can hide themselves some insects consider that tree look like a leaf some insects look like a little branch until they move some insects look like there's an Africa there's army ants the army ants are terrible but they're murderous ants but there's a little small creature that about the size of an army ant but it's not an ant but it looks kind of like an army ant and it's able to live with the army ants and they don't bother because they assume he's one of them and he smells the same as the army ants he eats what they eat and so this little creature which is not an ant is right there in the middle of a nest of army ants and nobody bothers him because he smells the same he looks the same and nobody knows that he's not an ant and I think to myself with animals and insects that can mimic other things around them who is to say these reptile aliens cannot mimic what we look like if they created us who knows what they can do we know that our government has got technology that can can electrically put into your brain things for you to see that are not there we know that they've been doing that for years we have all kinds of technology developed to have you see ghosts and ant entities and stuff and if and if all these other people I've talked with the military are right the US military is involved in point of fact with aliens and Stephen Spielberg is saying that not make 19 hour television series he's also saying that he and uh closing counters of the third kind and it shows how the military is out there on the desert you know waiting for the sauce to come in with no big news to them they were waiting for it they were all set up right why because they've been doing it for years and incidentally that moving uh in closing counters when those when that flying sauce have finally landed and all those military people the day you guys got off that actually was in fact based on the fact that those were the people who were uh lost held the day for the blue triangle there've been many people who have been lost over the blue triangle and those names are correct and he put it in a movie so what Spielberg Spielberg was saying is that these planes that have been lost over the blue little triangle the pilots that will lost chasing new york homes well they weren't lost they were they were kidnapped by the aliens they thought they were chasing no you're not chasing aliens they're they're getting you to come to them and so there's a lot of strange things going on in the in the in the Belona triangle that defy your imagination to totally defy anything you can you can dream of uh stuck just going on right now on the Belona triangle but what's interesting about the Belona triangle is that on the other side of the Atlantic and the Azores and the like the Canary Islands an incidentally canary was a name of a kind of a dog not birds uh canine dog and called Canary Islands but uh from the Belona triangle across the Atlantic coast of Africa off the coast of Africa is another spot just like the Belona triangle but something different happens there there in that area around the the the Canary Islands uh many many hundreds of ships boats tankers uh instead of being lost seeking and being lost forever in the Beluna triangle they are they don't they don't sink there in the Azores they're found with no one on them big oil tankers large cargo ships with no humans on them and they're just sitting out there and so that's one of the things that the African government's out there on you know to take these ships because if a ship was left completely deserted on the open sea then whoever takes it they own it that's according to maritime law so if there's some ship out there and nobody's on it you take it that is yours because it's an often it's on open water as not on any land uh on within the 12 mile limit so it's on the open sea wherever owns it owns it and so they are discovering that uh ships large ships from all over the world are found out there yachts and smaller boats still but nobody's on them which means somebody is taking the humans off of these ships and leaving the ships and that's a fact and that's not just one or two there's hundreds of cases when you begin to go back and look at what's going on the Canary Islands or what they call the area called the Azores there's lots of ships being uh being found but nobody on them so that alone is scary to be that that's a mystery just one more one more mystery that we don't know anything about and some of the stuff that's come out of the Bermuda triangle one one story came out of the Bermuda triangle was particularly fascinating there's two books out on this on this subject um I try to remember the name of them I'm gonna put them on my website soon but they were talking about how the US coast guards think it was the Yomacow the US coast guard was out the Bermuda triangle and it was very very foggy and that was in the after late after dealing extremely foggy and they were going very slow blowing the horns the letting everybody know that's how they're they were coming through and the radar guy came in and told the captain captain you got to stop the ship there's an island right in front of us and the captain said we're in the middle of the book and the ocean there isn't no island he has no that may be true but there's an island in front of us and it's in the navy laws it's in the navy record record but the uh that that the radar guy told the captain there is an island in front of us stopped the ship so the captain stopped the ship checked it and it was there's a big island on the radar and he said so they blew the horns and put on their their big bright lights and moved into the fog toward them slowly and he said that all of them in on the ship saw this island sitting right there but it was above the water about eight feet above the water and from where they were as you can see under the island and it was a beautiful island but it was above the water this is the united states navy in their records thing this is what we saw the captain said i don't know i'm just telling you what we saw there's an island sitting out there but it's not touching the water surface and he said we pulled right up to it and shined our lights on it and it was very very very very physical we don't know what to do but we backed off and he said we backed off i gave the order to turn the thing around and get out of here because i don't know what this represents and i don't want to know so i'm just saying a lot of strange things happen in the bermuda triangle and if you were to draw a triangle on a globe uh the bermuda triangle on a globe and go straight through the earth it comes out of the south of the sea of japan and that's the same identical triangle but the same measurements it's called the devil's triangle in the aria and the uh in commercial airlines japanese airlines korean airlines many many stories about seeing ufos coming in and out of that triangle going into the ocean coming out um albradaystein theorized that the bermuda the bermuda triangle was connected to the devil's triangle well obviously something's connected because it's doing the same thing but he said that that was a vortex for extraterrestials to come in and it was opened by nickel i tesla and and the philadelphia experiment that before the philadelphia experiment we weren't seeing this kind of stuff going on but at the philadelphia experiment there was um an opening of the time space continuum and salt somehow another there must have been some kind of a protective coat around the earth whoever created us put a protective shield around the earth and we know they're all kind of shield that protect us from the sun and and they and they raise out there but there's some kind of a shield that we didn't even know was there that protects us spiritually from other alien civilizations being able to come in freely some kind of a shield these extraterrestials who created us put around the earth to protect their their their laboratory that they're working and uh the the philadelphia experiment ripped a hole in the time space continuum and uh and now it's these aliens are able to come in through that time space continuum hole doc i don't know if you've ever heard his name but there's a very famous physicist um um tong birton have you ever heard of tong birton okay with tong birton is fascinating man i'm knowning for many years i'm knowning for a long time and we've talked often and one night we were at dinner over in casadena there was a bunch of speakers we had all been speaking at a conference over in casadena and we all went out to the end of the speakers did and everybody who's anybody on the speakers list was there um zacharwara situation was there and tong birton and bob back dr bob back and bill jake as of a bc news was bladamir tzinski from from russia was there all and uh all the different speaker for all there at the dinner and i got in because of bill jake and zadabc was a good friend of mine so he invited me in it was a long time ago but so we were sitting around talking and and norio hia kowel was there norio is very famous for uh just work with area 51 but norio was there too and so when i i would just listen to the conversation with all the brilliant guys talking i'm just sitting listening and finally the conversation boiled down and there's kind of quiet so i chucked up and said um i said um tom bob birton i said tom what can you tell me about the polynopathy experiment and he said jordan i'm not at liberty to talk about that because i know he's military he said i'm not at liberty to talk about that and so being a fool i you know all i did to open my mouth and change feet i said um as if i don't want you to tell me any national secret was there anything you can tell me at all and he says and he said it this way listen to what i'm saying i cannot talk about that subject now drop it in front of everybody it felt like a fool because this was very serious this man was serious i'm not talking about that don't even bring it up well i looked back on him i talked to him later i looked back on that and i think he answered my question i want to know is there something serious about this you're damn right as serious in front of everybody he's not talking period so just don't even ask that tells me there is something serious to it and then when i started doing all the research on nickel like tesler and dr jessup philip jessup who permitted suicide left a letter saying why he worked on the philip depth experiment why he killed himself i think he shot himself his letter basically said he could not live with what he had done he had opened up a time space continuum which opened up that urge to act as terrestrial light and they realized what they had done once they fit it they didn't know it was there but uh the philip depth experiment in fact opened a time space continuum and now the earth is i is can be invaded by other aliens some kind of a technology the aliens had to protect each other uh has been broken in our case and now they can come and go if they want this so we are sitting ducks because we humans we don't even know what the president of the united states is doing much less what aliens from all the world are trying and of course the president doesn't even know what he's doing but there's a fascinating story about mankind's connections with the other world and the aliens reptile alien story plays a big part of all of this and this whole idea of the of the crusted heads of the as i said the Hindu and the Tibetan monks the Hawaiians the uh the girls doing these dances and these men doing their fire dances i've been told by i've been told by some of the the priest over there but these are not entertainment dances these are specific kind of dances which are done to honor the gods and that if you are a dancer if you do anything wrong you will pay for it you you let every move that you make is choreographed because the way they explained it you do any one thing wrong in in the dance and you could die for it if you're going to be a dancer if you're going to be a performer and any of those ritual dances you better know what you're doing because they're being watched by aliens they're being watched by the gods and they have a very specific moves that they have designated you do in that ritual and so it's an actual blood ritual one of those dances up so when you see those Hawaiian dudes, these fire dances and all that is very beautiful and very interesting no no it's more than that and that's up on doing something like that and you go home you may die and that's why if you take a walk or anything that i've been told that too if you take anything and you have a little something from the beach you take it back to the mainland you'll wish the hell you hadn't you'll send that thing back because people say when they take rocks or anything from a whitey and bring it here you have just bought bought yourself a lot of trouble you're going to have demonic problems you're going to have things that come into your bedroom at night you better take that thing and send it back to Hawaii because it's messy with the property of the gods and you know and then when we see their gods have no talent and crusted heads and alien looking creatures so i'm i'm totally convinced that we are the product of an alien race that we have been molded into what we are today and being manipulated by and that's why i have no respect for religion but government philosophy has a lot to say but religion is based on some very ancient dark stuff people don't know anything about i talk a lot about that because that's my favorite subject i am totally convinced that astrology when it's correctly understood and it's not correct against that but astrology when it's correctly understood is a very very powerful tool that the aliens have known and that they have allowed some of the humans to understand and Nikolai tesler no not tesler but the great astrologer no stardomis figured out the real story on astrology as far as i'm concerned no stardomis was the the man who figured out how this stuff really works and i've been i've been into company of people who are astrologers who are who do astrology the no stardomis method and there the way they explain how most of the dandhas did his calculation has nothing whatsoever to do with anything that astrology today it doesn't look like astrology at all i think that they know what we don't know they know that they are not actually human and there was on on the tonight show with with uh jlana couple of years ago there was a a television show called what was it it was the um oh what was the name of the tv show that was interviewing prince charles it was uh 60 minutes 60 minutes yeah and prince charles was on 60 minutes being interviewed and and they and they guy from 60 minutes asked prince charles a question that he didn't like he was not happy with being asked this particular question and when the and when this interviewer asked prince charles the question he didn't want to hear prince charles looked at him and squinted his eyes and hiss like a snake he kept hissing at the at this uh interview he's not really like a snake and i was i was shocked and it was so incredible that jaylanel had that piece put on the on his show one night he was talking about about reptile aliens and he said watch this video of prince charles and you tell me what's going on and he showed the it was a piece from 60 minutes interview where the interviewer asked prince charles something he didn't want to he didn't want to be asked and instead of answering him he turned and looked at the interviewer and swinched his eyes down showing he was very unhappy with with with being asked this question and he started hissing loud like a snake he hissed and hissed at this interviewer and that was pretty incredible people in the audience were knocked out they couldn't believe it that here is prince charles the epitome of royalty i am totally convinced that the world is being run by reptile aliens i totally believed that and then i said i believed that not because david aik said so is because that's what i believe before i ever met david aik and i have a reason for believing that and uh and i've been doing this kind of research all my life and that's that's what i believe because i've seen it i've seen and heard too much that i now know there's something going on on the earth that has to do with extraterrestrial life forms of i hear but they're not exactly human
