Timestamp: 2025-08-06T12:32:16.862735
Title: 杨振宁史上最精彩的演讲，没有之一，全程高能，太吸引人了！顶级物理学家的思维，究竟与普通人有多大差距
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z90fkUa7fbw
Status: success
Duration: 59:00

Description:
**总结 (Summary):**

这位物理学家通过回顾其漫长而卓越的职业生涯，分享了从早年教育启蒙到成为世界级科学家的关键经历、思想转变和方法论见解。他强调了好奇心、批判性思维、灵活适应性、以及在科学探索中数学与物理深度融合的重要性。

**核心观点 (Core Point):**

这位物理学家非凡的科学生涯，以对知识的无尽好奇、勇于质疑的批判精神、策略性的坚持不懈，以及对抽象数学原理与物理现象深层统一的深刻洞察为标志，不仅塑造了现代物理学的进程，更提供了关于学习与探索的永恒智慧。

**总体框架 (Overarching Framework):**

本文以第一人称视角，追溯了一位杰出物理学家的求学、研究与思想发展历程，核心围绕其在物理学领域的关键贡献（如杨-米尔斯理论、宇称不守恒、统计力学）展开，并穿插了个人成长中的顿悟、重要师友的影响、对科学方法论的深刻反思，以及物理学与数学之间深刻而神秘的联系，旨在揭示科学探索的本质、学习的智慧和人生选择的艺术。

**提纲和结构 (Outline and Structure):**

**I. 早年经历与教育启蒙**
    *   出生与迁徙：合肥 (1922) → 厦门 (1928) → 清

Content:
I was born in Hefei, Anhui Province, in 1922. I left Hefei when I was six and first went to Xiamen for a year because my father taught at Xiamen University. Then in 1929, when I was seven, my father became a professor at Tsinghua University. So, my father, my mother, and I moved to Tsinghua University. I attended the Chenzhi Primary School there. After graduation, I went to a church school in the city, founded by the Anglican Church. At that time, I think two- thirds of Peking 's middle schools were church schools, and Chongde Middle School was one of them. I attended Chongde Middle School for four years, from the first grade to the first grade of high school. During those four years, I think the thing that had the greatest influence on me later in life was its small library. This small library contained books that introduced new scientific developments at the time. I remember reading this book, which was translated into Chinese and was called "The Mysterious Universe. " The author was James. James was an important physicist at the time. What does his book talk about? It talks about the three major revolutions in physics in the first 30 years of the 20th century. These three major revolutions were special relativity in 1905, general relativity in 1915, and quantum mechanics in 1925. It is very astonishing that two and a half of these three major revolutions were made by Russians. In 1905, when he wrote his first and most important work, he was only 26 years old. So why are these three major revolutions important? The reason is that by the end of the 19th century, physicists were studying what is called microscopic physics, which is macroscopic physics. What is macroscopic physics? It is the physics of a centimeter or a kilometer, or even as small as a millimeter. The founders of this kind of physics are of course Galileo and Newton. By the end of the 19th century, microscopic physics was very successful. However, at the end of the 19th century, many new phenomena were discovered that could not be explained by Newtonian physics. This is called microscopic physics. The most important thing about physics is that when you get to the size of an atom, which is 10 to the power of 8 centimeters, these phenomena can no longer be explained by Newtonian physics. So at the end of the 19th century, in the last 10 to 20 years, many very strange problems arose in physics. The final solution to these problems was the three great revolutions in the early 20th century that I just mentioned. The impact of this revolution was not only on physics, but also on the entire human race. For example, today, electricity, network communications, and all of these, including, of course, the explosion of the atomic nucleus, all All of this is based on those three major concepts. You could also say that this book and some other translated physics books I read at the time had a huge impact on me. I was shocked and felt that this was something worth studying. In 1937, the Anti-Japanese War broke out, and my family left Tsinghua. My father went to teach at Southwest Associated University, a combination of Peking University, Tsinghua University, and Nankai University in Kunming. My father went there to teach, so our family moved to Kunming. In the summer of 1938, I was in my second year of high school, but I didn't graduate. The education system in Chongqing at that time was very bad. The department found that too many middle school students were displaced and did not finish college, so they said that you can take the college entrance examination without a high school diploma. It is called equivalent qualifications. So I took the exam and was admitted to Southwest Associated University with equivalent qualifications. However, since I did not study in the last year and a half of middle school, I had not learned high school physics. So when they had to take the exam, I applied for chemistry. Since I had learned high school chemistry, I was admitted to the chemistry department. However, if you want to apply for the chemistry department, you also have to take the physics exam. So I borrowed a high school physics book and locked myself at home for a month, trying my best to learn everything in high school physics. After studying, I found that physics was very interesting. To me, it was even more interesting than chemistry. So when I was admitted to Southwest Associated University, I immediately transferred from the Chemistry Department to the Physics Department. There is another point here that I think is worth mentioning to you young students today. I remember very clearly that when I was studying high school physics, I saw such a question. This was my admission ticket at the time. Hahaha, in high school physics, everyone discussed a question: if there is a fulcrum that is the circle rotating there, then the book explained that it has an acceleration called a Acceleration is equal to the square of the velocity divided by the radius. When I read this paragraph, I was very confused. I felt that this was not right. Why? Because when this thing is rotating, of course it is rushing toward the top. For example, when it rotates upward, it is rushing toward that direction. But the book says that its acceleration is centripetal, it is rushing inward. So when it is rotating like this, I feel that it is rushing like this, but the book says that its force is not downward. So, at first, I felt that I couldn't understand this. I didn't say that it was wrong, but I felt that it didn't conform to my intuitive concept. Later, after thinking about the book carefully, I finally understood that what is talked about in physics is a vector, which is different from ordinary quantities. I think everyone here who has studied physics will understand the importance of the vector. How can we cancel that thing? This experience taught me a lesson. This lesson is that if your intuition, you know, everyone has many intuitions in their life, this intuition can be said to be a two-year-old's intuition. Why do three-year-olds have this? Because a three-year-old, a two-year-old, or a three-year-old knows that if there is a table, he will bump into it if he tries to walk towards it. So, in order to survive, a two-year-old or a three-year-old has a lot of understanding about the relationship between the environment and himself. This is an intuition. So when I said that when turning, it is rushing forward. This is also a very natural intuition. When your intuition conflicts with the knowledge in the book, you must pay attention because this is the best learning opportunity. You can't give up. What does it mean to not give up? It means that you have to understand this clearly. Just like what I said just now, I don't just want to understand why it is written in the book as v square divided by You also have to understand its spirit. I finally understood that it was a vector. Speed and acceleration are vectors, not ordinary quantities. This understanding was very inspiring to me later on. In other words, after understanding it, I made some corrections to my intuition. You can also say that learning is actually constantly correcting your intuition. If you can continue to correct it in the right direction, then you have one more way of thinking than those who don't correct it. When I was at Southwest Associated University, I had many outstanding classmates. When I was in graduate school, there were only six classmates in the physics department. Three of them are in this photo. The one on the far left is Huang Kun. Huang Kun later became a master of solid-state physics. He returned to China in the 1950s and made important contributions to China and physics. Why? Because everyone knows that semiconductors are an indispensable field in today's industry. Semiconductors only started in the 1950s. Internationally, it was Huang Kun who opened a training course in China in the 1950s to teach students about semiconductors. Today, all the people involved in semiconductors in Chinese universities, research institutes, and factories are his disciples. For his contributions, President Jiang Zemin personally awarded him the largest award in Chinese science in 2000. The person in the middle is Zhang Shoulian. He later changed his career from physics to electrical engineering and made important contributions to electrical engineering. The person on the right is me. This photo was taken in 1992 when Mr. Zhou Peiyuan turned 90. There was a celebration at Peking University, and the three of us attended. When we were at Southwest Associated University, we often spoke eloquently, so we attracted a lot of attention. So, someone took a photo of us in 1992. Huang Kun passed away in 2004, but Zhang Henian is now 92 years old and still alive and studying. I later described our life situation in the book like this: We debated endlessly about various issues in physics. I remember one time we were arguing about the precise meaning of measurement in quantum mechanics. This was a significant and subtle contribution of the Cohen-Hagen School, and a foundational theory in quantum mechanics. The debate continued from the moment we started drinking tea that day until we returned to Kuanghua Middle School, turned off the lights, and went to bed. Why was that? The three of us lived in the same dormitory at the time. The New Year's Eve party was very simple. There was no boiled water to drink, so how did everyone get water? We went to the teahouse after dinner. There were many teahouses around Southwest Associated University, all of which were occupied by students from the university. In the teahouses, you could order Pu'er tea, scented tea leaves, or glass tea. What is glass tea? It's a cup of water without tea leaves. At that time, we were all in the teahouse, debating all the problems in the world, including physics. I can't remember the exact details of the debate that night, nor do I remember who held which view, but I clearly remember that the three of us got out of bed and lit the candles. Frank Heisenberg's quantum theory principles regulated our debate. I received my master's degree at Southwest Associated University in 1944, and the Anti-Japanese War ended a year later. So in the summer of 1945, I went to the United States via India and entered the University of Chicago. Why did I go through India? Because the war had just ended and there were no air routes, no sea transportation, and no air routes. So the only way to get from Kunming to the United States was to take a small US military plane from Kunming to Kolkata. Then, we were a group of 20 students studying in the United States on government scholarships. Tsinghua University, also known as the Tsinghua American Foundation, established several six examinations for students studying in the United States after 1911-1925. The last one was held in 1943. I took the exam, and when the results were announced, about 20 people received the scholarship. So, We were a group on the same ship. We flew from Kunming to Calcutta in August 1945. We waited in Calcutta for two months until there were some empty seats on the American troop transport ship. We boarded that ship and passed through the Red Sea and the Mediterranean Sea before arriving in New York on November 24, 1945. After arriving in New York, I first wanted to go to Columbia University because I wanted to find a physicist whom I admired very much, named Firmy. Later, I found out that he was not at Kramer University. Finally, I found out that he went to Chicago, so I entered the University of Chicago in early 1946. I was a graduate student at Zhejiang University for two and a half years. Was it smooth sailing? No, in 1947, when I was a graduate student for more than a year, as I just mentioned, I worked on several topics given to me by Taylor, but none of them suited my taste. So at that time. . . On the boat ride from China to the United States, I told myself that physics is based on experiments. I didn't have the opportunity to learn experiments in China, so I said that I must write an experimental paper when I go to the United States. Then when I arrived in Chicago, I did some research with Taylor, but it was unsuccessful. So I found an experimental physics professor named Allison and worked in his laboratory. I soon discovered that I, my classmates, and my teacher also discovered that I was not good at hands-on work. I often broke the equipment when I did it. So at that time, I was at a low point. I wrote a letter to Huang Kun, whom I introduced to you earlier. He was a graduate student in the UK at that time. I wrote him a letter, and there was this sentence in the letter. It was said that I was disillusioned, which means my ideals were extinguished. As for the letter I wrote to him, he later returned to China during the Cultural Revolution and burned the book and letter. I think everyone understands the situation at that time. Fortunately, he wrote me a very long letter in reply. I found this very long letter in my archives a few years ago. So from the letter Huang Kun wrote to me, I can recall that in 1947, I felt that my future was a little bleak. So what did I do under such circumstances? So I said that I would develop my own topic. I found three topics at first. One was called isomod, one was called Betas work, and one was called Geometer. Isomod was a very famous Swedish physicist who later came to the United States. His name was Onsaka. He published an amazing article. This article was very famous, so I tried to study how he wrote it. The article was not long, about a dozen pages. After studying it for a few weeks, I still didn't understand it. His article was just one formula after another. You just kept following his instructions for a dozen pages, and then suddenly you got the result. You didn't understand why he was flipping around like that. So this was not an understanding. After studying it for a few weeks, I admired his ability very much, but I didn't learn anything. Another thing I was studying at the time was Beta's work. Beta is the Onsaka I just mentioned. Both Onsaka and Beta later won Nobel Prizes. Prize Beta's 1931 work on spinways is quite famous. It involves complex mathematical deductions, and I've been studying it for a long time, but I haven't come up with any results. I think it took everyone about a month or two. The third topic is about gay marriage, and today I found a few pages of notes from March 1947 in my archives. These are my thoughts at the time. They were about a concept called "gay in Venice, " which was conceived by a mathematician named Viar in 1910. I wondered if this idea could be extended to the newly discovered fundamental physics. This is the second page, and this is the third page. Geometer, a concept introduced by Vial in 1918, was applied to electromagnetism. It was interesting, but not very useful. Many new examples were discovered in the new world at the time, and I thought the forces between these new particles might be generalized. In other words, some new examples were discovered at that time, and it was unclear how they interacted with each other. Then there was Vile's sharp idea. I said, "I wondered if I could apply this to this. " This can be said to be the most important point of my success. At that time, no one else thought this way, but I did. So I went to study this aspect. This idea seemed to make sense, but the more I calculated, the more complicated it became. So after a month or two, it didn't work. So from the 123 method I just mentioned, each one didn't produce any results after a few months. But what I want to tell you is that all three of them produced results, but they just didn't succeed at the time. What is the lesson for this failure? This attempt is not necessarily unreasonable. The last topic I found myself was the angular distribution in nuclear reactions. This was also a popular experimental topic at the time. I combined it with theory and understood some phenomena. Then I wrote a very short article and showed it to Taylor. The content of this article basically applies the concept of symmetry to nuclear reactions. In fact, I can give you a rough description of this application. We all know that there is a periodic table. The periodic table was discovered by Mandela in the 19th century. Everyone knows that when you study chemistry, you know that its period is 288. Where did this 288 come from? When Mandela At the time of f, and for many years afterwards, the origins of these trees were unknown. It was only after you filled in the table that you naturally discovered the existence of these trees based on the chemical structure. With the development of quantum mechanics, the principle of symmetry was used to understand the 288. This 288 is a fundamental number in group theory. In other words, group theory discusses a symmetry principle. So, in other words, the number of these periods comes from the concept of symmetry in group theory. This tells you that group theory has a decisive influence on the structure of matter. So, what I just said about what I did at that time was a small end point within a large influence. So I caught the idea, so I wrote this article and gave it to Taylor to read. Then one day Taylor came to me in the lab because I just said that I was doing something in the lab. He said, "Frank, because my informal name is Frank, " and he said, "Frank, I heard that your experiment was not very successful. Because I was very famous among the 200 graduate students at the University of Chicago at that time. Everyone knew that this person did very good theoretical work, but was very clumsy in experiments. So when he knew that I was not successful, he came to me and said, "Frank, is your experiment not successful? Oh, I said it was not very successful. " He asked, "Why do you have to write this experimental paper? I will use this very short article as your graduation thesis, and you can get a doctorate degree. So this After I finished speaking, I was very troubled. I said thank you and I needed to think about it. Why? Because my original intention was to write an experimental paper and I couldn't give up easily. So I went back and thought about it. Many years later, when I recalled this incident and wrote about it, I said that after thinking about it for a few days, I felt that he was right, so I made up my mind to accept his offer. After accepting it, I felt relieved. Why was I relieved? Because I had been weighed down by this paper for a long time. So of course, it was great after I made this decision. Now thinking about it, this decision is a very important point in my life. The lesson I learned from this is that if you are in a very difficult situation, you should think about whether you should change your career to study. There were many important professors at Southwest Associated University at that time. Looking back, there are two who have had the greatest influence on me. One is Professor Wang, who is 14 years older than me. He was a young professor who had just returned from England. The research direction he discussed was called statistical mechanics. What is statistical mechanics? As we all know, all matter was understood by 19th-century physicists to be composed of atoms and molecules. There are countless atoms and molecules in every part of our body. These atoms and molecules move inside, and the result of this movement shows many phenomena. For example, the molecules and atoms in water move very vigorously. If you heat the water, it freezes even more. When it reaches 100 degrees Celsius, it freezes so much that it evaporates. So it becomes water vapor. The movement of many atoms and molecules at different temperatures is a physical phenomenon. The research field is called statistical mechanics. This is Mr. Wang's research direction. When I was about to graduate from university in 1931942, students at Southwest Associated University had to write a bachelor's thesis to get a bachelor's degree. The thesis didn't have to be long, but it had to express what the student knew about a certain field. So I went to see Mr. Chairman Wang. I'm sorry, I said it wrong just now. This was when I was studying at the graduate school of Southwest Associated University and I was about to write my master's thesis. I went to see Mr. Chairman Wang, and he introduced me to the field of statistical mechanics. One of the very important fields of statistical mechanics is SUB. The discipline is called phase transition. I just said that the transformation from water to water vapor is one phase transition. When water is cooled, it turns into ice, which is another phase transition. Phase transition is a very important phenomenon. My interest in statistical mechanics and phase transition originated from Mr. Wang's leadership. Later, this field was the focus of one-third of my life's work. Another professor of physics at Southwest Associated University who had a great influence on me was Mr. Wu Dayou. This photo was of course not taken at the time. This photo was taken when I was 60 years old. There was an academic conference celebrating my 60th birthday at Stone Book. Mr. Wu was in Taiwan at the time. He specially came from Taiwan to visit my students. This photo was taken in my office. When I was studying for my bachelor's degree, I had to write a thesis. So I went to see Mr. Wu. He told me that there was an article about symmetry. I should study the article and write a thesis. Symmetry, this concept, exists in daily life, for example, left-right symmetry or circular symmetry. The language used to apply this concept to physics and mathematics is called group theory. Group theory in mathematics and physics began in the 19th century. In the 20th century, group theory became one of the most basic languages in physics and mathematics. Work related to group theory is one of the pillars of physics and mathematics in the 20th century. I am very grateful to Mr. Wu for guiding me into this field in 1942. I went to see Mr. Wu and told him that I wanted to be his student. When I was writing a thesis, he gave me a copy of Reviews of modern Physics asked me to study one of the articles. I'm currently reading from an article I wrote later to see what I learned. This article discusses the relationship between molecular spectroscopy and group theory. I took the article home to show my father. Although my father didn't study physics, he studied mathematics, and he knew a lot about group theory. So he gave me a small book written by Dixon called Modern Algebra Theory. Dixon was my father's teacher at the University of Chicago. The book was very concise and without any nonsense, which was exactly what I liked. In just 20 pages, he fully and beautifully explained the representation theory in weight theory. I learned the beauty of group theory and its in-depth application in physics, which had a decisive influence on my later work. This field can be called the principle of symmetry. My interest in symmetry principles actually originated from Mr. Wu's guidance that year. This is a lifelong interest of mine. I 'm very grateful. This is a photo of Fermi. He was a master of 20th-century physics, and he made a very important contribution that is closely related to the lives of everyone in the world today. He was the first to build the world's first reactor, proving that nuclear reactions can generate energy. Once energy is generated, there are two ways. One is to generate it slowly, which can generate electricity. This is the origin of all current nuclear power generation. If you change the method to make it generate energy rapidly, it will naturally cause an explosion. This is the principle of atomic bombs and hydrogen bombs. The first successful artificial release of nuclear energy was in December 1942, when Fermi built the first reactor at the University of Chicago. Today, the site of the reactor no longer exists because the reactor was originally built at the University of Chicago. The University of Chicago was originally established in the United States around 1890 with donations from the Rockefeller family. After its establishment, the University of Chicago quickly became an important university with football and football fields. It is an American The football stadium had a large stand. In 1929, the University of Chicago had a new, young, 29-year-old president named Hawkins. At that time, Americans called him "boy chancellors. " He opposed sports and said that there should be no sports in the university, so he disbanded the University of Chicago football team. This was a shocking thing at the time. After the disbandment, the stand was useless and just sat empty. In 1942, the US government wanted to study whether it was possible to build a reactor and extract materials from the reactor to make an atomic bomb. This required a place to do this, so they decided to build a reactor in the empty space under the unused football stand at the University of Chicago. In the 1950s, the reactor and the stand were completely removed. There is now a famous sculpture in that place. This sculpture commemorates the place where humans first built an anti-smoke stack. This is a masterpiece of the British architect Henry Moer. If you go to the University of Chicago, it is best to take a photo here. This is Henry. One of Moer's masterpieces. I later recounted the tragic passing of Andre Cohen in 1954, when he was only 53. At a celebration marking the 100th anniversary of his birth, I said the following: Andre Cohen is one of the most respected and admired of all the great physicists of the 20th century. He is respected and admired for his contributions to both theoretical and experimental physics, for the discovery of powerful new energy sources under his leadership, and more importantly, for his personality. He is always reliable and trustworthy, always down-to-earth. He is extremely capable, yet he never abuses his influence, seeks popularity, or uses flattering language. I have always considered him a typical Confucian gentleman. I know many world-renowned physicists, and he is very special in this respect. For example, there is another very famous physicist named Robert Oppenheimer, who I am also very familiar with because he was at Princeton for 17 years. The director of the institute was a brilliant physicist with excellent eloquence. However, he was the opposite of Openheimer. He didn't focus on being practical; he wanted to show that he was a very outstanding person. This was also related to his subsequent dismissal by the US government because he easily offended too many people. In addition to his contributions to physics, as I just mentioned, Fermi was highly respected in both the American and global physics communities for his character. I learned a lot about physics from Jimmy, as well as some physics methods. I once said this about Fermi: " We learned from Fermi that physics should not be a specialist subject. Physics is to be built from the ground up, brick by brick, layer by layer. We learned that abstraction comes after detailed foundational work, not before. " We also learned in these lectures of Fermi's that he delighted in rather than aversion to simple numerical computation with a desk computer. When I was Fermi's student, there were no modern computers, only hand-cranked ones. He was very interested in using hand-cranked computers for simple calculations, besides the formal and informal. Ferdinand also devoted almost all his learned hours to the graduate students, at least that was the state of affairs before 1950. The conversations in these luncheons naturally covered a wide range of subjects. We observed Ferdinand as a somewhat conservative man with a very independent mind. We observed his dislike of pretension of whatever kind. Sometimes he would give general advice to us about our research work. I remember his emphasizing that as a young man, one should devote most of one's time to attacking simple practical problems rather than deep fundamental ones. I remember this last incident very clearly because we asked him whether we should study the big problems. Or should we study small problems? His answer is that we should spend most of our time studying small problems. We can study big problems, but we have to know when to stop. That is, if you study a big problem for a while and there is no progress, you can't keep hitting the wall and not turn back. Why do you do that? Because if you do that, you may end up going crazy. In fact, this is not a random statement. I have been in the United States for many years and I know that among students and colleagues, there are some people who are too eager to do the most basic work but fail, so they end up having some mental problems. This is a common phenomenon at the University of Chicago. Another person who had a great influence on me was Edward Taylor. Taylor was 14 years older than me and was already a very famous physicist. However, he was most famous for being the most important person in the United States who discovered the principle of the hydrogen bomb after I got my doctorate from the University of Chicago and went to Princeton. As everyone knows, the United States exploded an atomic bomb in 1945. The discovery of the atomic bomb actually came from a physics phenomenon discovered in Germany in 1938 called fission. Fission means that under the right circumstances, an atomic nucleus can split into two, releasing a lot of energy. Once this phenomenon occurred in 1938, all physicists knew that this could be turned into a series of events. One atomic nucleus splits into two, and the resulting material can cause other atomic nuclei to split as well. This is called a chain reaction. The development of a chain reaction may lead to an explosion. So it can be said that this discovery in 1938 made physicists realize that they could make atomic piles and atomic bombs. However, it took four years of hard work. As I mentioned earlier, Fermi built the first reactor under his guidance in 1942. So after this reactor was built, the atomic bomb could be built. This concept was also known to all physicists. But the atomic bomb exploded in 1945. Of course, there was an immediate question: could there be an explosion a thousand times longer? This is called a hydrogen bomb. At that time, everyone guessed that it was possible. Both the United States and the Soviet Union wanted to advance in this area. At that time, I was Taylor's student. Taylor did not discuss this issue in school, but his most enthusiastic thing at that time was how to make a hydrogen bomb. However, there is a basic difference between the manufacture of hydrogen bombs and the manufacture of atomic bombs. You can also say that the manufacture of atomic bombs is basically a very long series of engineering problems with many small All the engineering problems had to be solved. But from the atomic bomb to the hydrogen bomb, in addition to a series of engineering problems, there was also a trick. If you don't understand this trick, you can't make the hydrogen bomb. It's not enough to just solve a lot of engineering problems to turn the atomic bomb into a hydrogen bomb. In the end, the main person who solved this trick in the United States was Taylor. So now in the world, the hydrogen bomb made in the United States is called the Taylor-Ulam bomb. The Soviet Union also made a hydrogen bomb, so now everyone calls the Soviet hydrogen bomb the Sakhrov bomb. I do n't know if the students here know who made the Chinese hydrogen bomb. One is Deng Jiaxian and the other is Yu Min. So now the international community calls it the Chinese hydrogen bomb. The discovery of this trick is Deng Yu's bomb. This photo of me was taken in the 1980s. When I was Taylor's student, Taylor was only about 40 years old and a very outstanding physicist. But later on, of course, he became very famous. The physics I learned at the University of Chicago is basically different from the physics I learned in China. There is a big difference between the two. I would like to introduce this point in particular. The physics I learned in China can be said to be the deductive method. What is the deductive method? It is to go from theory to phenomenon. What is the deductive method? It is the physics I learned at that time. For example, thermodynamics has the so-called first theorem of thermodynamics, the second theorem of thermodynamics, and the third theorem of thermodynamics. The teacher tells you what the theorem is, and then you deduce from this theorem what kind of phenomena should be based on this theorem. At the University of Chicago, these are not discussed. What everyone discusses at the University of Chicago is called induction. What is induction? It starts with new phenomena. Because in the past, some theories and phenomena in physics were very clear, but the layers There are endless new phenomena. What the University of Chicago pays attention to are these new phenomena. So the question is whether these new phenomena can be summarized and whether they are consistent with the existing theories. If they are consistent, then you understand the phenomenon. If they are not consistent, then it is even better. Maybe you need a new theory. So the key point is that the distinction from phenomenon to theory is very important. Taylor has many new insights in this inductive method. He also has another characteristic. He likes to discuss with people, even if it is an immature idea. So you are walking in the corridor and suddenly you see him and he says, "Okay, I have a very good insight today. What do you think? " What is the phenomenon of baked oxide? When you discuss with him, if you think his insight is wrong, he will not think that you are unfriendly to him. He is willing to discuss with you. If there is a result, it may become a valuable article. This is his working method. I often tell my students that this method is something that we who have been trained in the Chinese educational tradition need to pay attention to. Because there is a saying in the Chinese educational tradition that "knowing is knowing. " What does "not knowing to know is knowing" mean? It means that you have to figure out what you understand and what you don't understand. If you don't understand something, don't talk about it. This is contrary to Taylor's spirit. Is this right? Of course it makes sense. If you keep hoping that you can distinguish what you understand and what you don't understand, you will understand a lot of things during this step. So this instruction makes sense. But if you take it too seriously and believe it too much, it won't be good. Why? Because there are many things you don't understand very well. When you don't understand something, things will slowly ferment. So I always tell my graduate students that there are some colloquialities in the school that you must listen to. It doesn't matter if you don't understand it the first time. If you listen the second time, you will feel that you understand a little more. After listening a few times, you may gradually understand it. I call this the permeation learning method. This method is not traditionally approved of in China, but I think it is a very important learning method. Taylor gave me a very short test and then said, "You are very good. I will accept you as my student. " He gave me a topic, and after working on it for a few months, I got some results. He was very proud of it and asked me to give a speech and then write it out. However, I haven't written this article yet. Why? Because I found that the thing he taught me to do contained many approximations and a lot of imprecise data. When all these imprecise data were added together, I couldn't guarantee the final result, so I couldn't write it out. Taylor said it didn't matter and gave me another topic. The same phenomenon occurred again. After changing the topics several times, the research atmosphere in the Department of Physics at the University of Chicago was very strong. There was a colloquium or several seminars every week. A seminar is a more specific colloquium. It usually involves inviting a famous person from another field to give a comprehensive report on an entire field. Its special feature is that it focuses on new phenomena and new methods, and less on textbook knowledge. For example, at the University of Chicago, during the two years I was there, several young people made some very important discoveries. One of them was a chemist named Liebbe, who proposed a method called carbon fourteen dating. Before that, no one knew the age of archaeological discoveries, whether they were rocks or specimens, except for geological materials. So he came up with a method to use the radioactivity fixed in carbon to estimate the age of the excavated objects. This method, called carbon fourteen dating, was a major revolution. Now, the world is paying attention to paleontology and even mining. Dating originated from a work done at the time. Libby later won a prize and the Robert Prize. I also remember a very heated debate. Yuri was discussing how the world's organic molecules first came into being. The earliest origin of life became a small field in chemistry and biology. In physics, the most popular topic of discussion was the so- called meson. There were several types of mesons. These were the hottest research topics at the time. At the University of Chicago, everyone was at ease in this academic atmosphere. Under such training, four of my classmates who received PhDs between 1948 and 1950 later won the Nobel Prize. This represents the academic atmosphere of the University of Chicago at the time and the success of the students trained in this way. Later, after visiting New China in 1971, I wrote an article saying that the courses taught in Chinese universities are often very advanced. There are the so-called four major mechanics. Every physics student in a university has to spend a long time studying these four difficult theoretical courses. Are the four major mechanics important? Of course, they are important. No one can deny that the four major mechanics are the backbone of physics. However, physics does not only have a backbone. Physics with only a backbone is a skeleton, not alive. Physics needs bones, flesh and blood. Only physics with bones and flesh and blood is physics. I think what I said makes sense. Moreover, in the past few decades, the method of teaching physics in domestic universities has gradually moved away from the original method of over-emphasizing the four major mechanics. However, I think it is still not enough. When teaching physics, domestic universities still pay too much attention to the past deductive method and not enough to the inductive method. Hahaha. When I was in middle school at Beijing When I was in Beijing Middle School and studying at Kunming University, I had a very good friend named Deng Jiaxian. I mentioned earlier that Deng Jiaxian made important contributions to China's atomic bomb and hydrogen bomb. He was studying in the United States from 1948 to 1950. We knew each other very well. One summer, he came from Peru to Chicago. He and I, my brother Yang Zhenping, rented an apartment and we lived together for the whole summer. After he got his doctorate in 1950, he immediately returned to China and later became a person who made significant contributions to China's atomic bomb and hydrogen bomb. When he passed away, General Zhang Aiping wrote these words: "Deng Jiaxian, the hero of China's two atomic bombs. " After I got my doctorate in 1948, I worked as an instructor in Chicago for a year. People don't use that term in the US anymore. It's actually equivalent to a postdoc, but a teaching postdoc. From 1949 to 1966, I was at the Institute for Advanced Study for 17 years. Instagram is, of course, the most famous. When I went to Instagram in 1949, Instagram had already retired, but he came to my office every day, so I knew where he was going and when he was going. So in 1954, I took my son to this photo. I was walking down the street and asked Ashdan, " Can you take a photo with my child? " It was exactly that photo. Instudio has always had very important professors in mathematics and physics, including Gooder Polly, director Chen Shuisheng, Herman Byer, and Nils. Boer, the younger people are from my generation. This list is from 1949, the year I first went there. These people later became important figures in physics and mathematics. Among them, Gao Bennan and Li Dengdao both won the Nobel Prize. Why was IBM so successful? I think the first reason is that it was well-informed. The second reason is that everyone found their own forums. There was no saying who you worked with. Everyone was independent, so everyone could also find their own collaborators. I think it is easy for smart and well- trained young people to collide and produce important new results in such a competitive and cooperative and well-informed unit. When I was there, I mainly worked on nuclear physics and particle physics. It was not just me. My colleagues at the time were all doing these things. I don't want to explain this in detail. During this period, by chance, a colleague named Letenger, who was about the same age as me, asked me if I had heard of any new developments in the IC model. I just told you about a model I worked on at the University of Chicago for several months without producing any results. They told me about a new development, and within ten minutes, while we were working on it, they explained the direction of this new development. Why was I able to absorb it so immediately? It's because I'd spent months discussing it without understanding it, but now I knew some of the details. Now, a new development has connected all of these details. So, within ten minutes, I was able to understand this new key concept. In other words, if I hadn't put in those months of effort, I wouldn't have learned anything. And what I learned later had a huge impact on my work. Why? Because after I understood this, I performed a long calculation, the longest in my career of local tactical tricks. The calculation proceeded through twists and turns. There were many obstructions, but always after a few days, a new trick was somehow found that pointed to a new path. The trouble was that I soon felt I was in a maze and wasn't sure whether, after so many turns, I was anywhere nearer the goal than when I began this kind of strategic overview. I was very depressed and several times I almost gave up, but each time something drew me back, usually a new tactical trick that brightened the scene, even though only locally. Finally, after about six months of work off, and on all the pieces suddenly fitted together, producing miraculous cancellations, I was staring at the amazingly simple final result. This formula is just some polynomials, very simple, but it uses very complex mathematics to produce a result. This formula can be said to be my first famous paper in the physics community, because it was a problem that everyone knew was very difficult at the time, and I solved it, and the result was beautiful. From this experience, I learned that you have to be interested in something, and that's my understanding of IC. Under the guidance of Mr. Wang Zhuxi, I became interested in this model. Then I went to the University of Chicago and did some preparation for a few months. The result was not successful at that time. But after having this, you can finally bear fruit when something new comes. I think this is a very important experience for my own research work. One-third of my life work is in statistical mechanics, including my work in the past two years. This field has developed in the past two years into a new field called radium atoms in the past 10 years. Radium atoms are one of the two or three hottest fields in physics. This field is closely related to the statistical mechanics I did at the beginning. So I have returned to this field in recent years to do cutting-edge research. Another interesting thing I did at the University of Chicago is the Gauge Invariance, which I just mentioned. I have just told you about it. Gauge Invariance was introduced by Wahl in 1918. I just showed you this slide. As I mentioned earlier, at the University of Chicago, I continued to be interested in getting the difference, but I couldn't get any results. The calculations became more and more complicated. From 1953 to 1954, I visited Brookhaven National Library for a year. I worked in the same office with a young man named Robert Mills. This photo was taken in 1999 when I retired from Stony Brook. The school organized a retirement symposium. Robert Miers came that day. There were a lot of people at the dinner party. I was sitting at the table when Robert Miers came, so I stood up and someone took this photo of us. This is the only photo of Miers I have taken in my life. He didn't tell me at the time that he had clear cancer, so three months after this photo was taken, he passed away. He looks fine in this photo. Mills was five years younger than me and was very intelligent. The field he and I developed from gay theory is undoubtedly my most important work. This most important work is actually very simple. The formula FMUNU above is Maxwell's formula. Maxwell, the most important physicist of the 19th century, had an equation. Mills and I generalized it, and it became the equation below. Then there's AMU AMU minus AMU AMU. That's why I didn't succeed at first. When I was in Chicago, I didn't think of adding this term, so the equation I wrote down was the same as Maxwell's. It didn't work. When Music and I were collaborating, we said, "If it doesn't work, can you add one more term? " And that's when it worked. The lesson I learned from this experience is that if you have a good idea, don't give up. As I said just now, don't get stuck in a rut or work yourself to the point of going crazy. If you don't succeed, just give it up and do something else. After a few years, you might have new ideas, new phenomena, or new insights. Try this again. Don't give up completely. It often works. From 1955 to 1956, a major question arose in the physics community called the Sitto puzzle. The mystery of Sitto is that at that time a particle called sit was discovered. After decaying, it turned into two factions. Another example called tall was discovered. It decayed into three factions. Of course, these are different things. These two things decay differently. At that time, there were many kinds of basic examples. New discoveries all decayed differently, so they were all different. However, in another group of experiments, these CT and sets were taken for study. The study found that their masses were very close, with only a half percentage point difference. Usually, the ratio of the masses of two basic particles is very large, tens of thousands or even tens of thousands. The difference between these two things is so close, so this is very strange. Their lifespans are also basically the same. This is not very accurate, but within 20% of the percentage, the lifespans are also the same. So some people say that these two are basically the same thing, a proton, with two different decay methods, one is two factions and the other is three factions. But others say that according to the basic laws of physics, this s is absolutely symmetrical on the left and right. It and talk cannot be the same example, so this is called sit and talk. This was the most important topic at the time. When Li Dengdao and I were studying this problem in the summer of 1945 and 1956, we recently said that we would finally review the work that previously believed that left-right symmetry was absolutely symmetrical. After a few weeks of review, we made a surprising discovery. It turned out that the previous experiments that believed that left-right symmetry was absolutely symmetrical were all unfounded. At that time, no one had thought clearly. So we wrote an article saying that left-right symmetry had not been absolutely proven to be correct in the past, so this needed to be re-examined. Then we proposed which experiments should be done to solve this problem. Later, most physicists, almost all experimental physicists, were unwilling to do our experiments. Why? First, they believed that these experiments were very difficult. Second, if they were done, they would believe that the left-right symmetry was still proved. So this still could not solve the problem. So, their achievement wouldn't have attracted global attention, so no one else was willing to do it. Only Chien- Shiung Wu, I later said, had a unique vision. He said the experiment should be done because it was an important topic, even if it didn't shock the world. That was his strength. This was his experimental equipment, which is now at the Smithsonian Institute in Washington. His collaborators were four Americans. I later wrote these words after Chien-Shiung Wu passed away: "Chien-Shiung Wu's work is renowned for its precision, but there's a more important reason for his success. " In 1956, no one else was willing to test the law of conservation of equilibria. Why was he willing to take on this difficult task? Because he had a unique vision and believed that even if the law of conservation of equilibria wasn't overturned, its fundamental law should be tested. That was his strength. The lesson I learned from this is that if there's a fundamental problem that needs to be solved, you should tackle it. From 1949 to 1966 were the most fruitful 17 years of my research career. In 1966, I left Princeton and joined the Stoddard Book Institute for Theoretical Physics. It's not easy for a director and professor to leave the ivory tower of the Institute for Advanced Study. During my internship, I didn't understand the relationship between the Gauge theory I was working on and mathematics. The head of the mathematics department at that time was Jim Simmons. One day, I discussed the gauge field formula with him. He said that the gauge field formula you're working on in physics has already been studied by us in mathematics, and it 's called microscopic worms. So I asked him to explain cellulose to me. He gave us a series of informal discussions over lunch, which had a huge impact. After I understood it, Wu Daojun and I wrote an article. This article was read by physicists and mathematicians. Mathematicians generally began to understand that the structure of the gauge field is what is called the microscopic layer structure in mathematics. This photo of Simons was taken in 2001 when I invited him to visit Tsinghua University. He left Sonnabook in 1980 and went to Wall Street, and later became a billionaire. He is now one of the three most successful hedge fund managers on Wall Street in the United States. His income is. . . The fund's annual income is in the billions of dollars, so I invited him to visit Tsinghua University. He donated me a children's science hall, which is now open. Simons' explanation, and the article I later wrote, sparked widespread interest in gauge fields in mathematics and the importance of topology in physics. This breakthrough in physics, in nematodes, was led by Professor Chen Shensheng, a key figure. Professor Chen Shensheng is 11 years older than me. He was in his nineties at Nankai University. This is a photo of us taken when he received an honorary degree in neurology. When I learned about the relationship between line bundles and gauge fields, I wrote an article and later wrote a memoir. In 1975, the fact that gauge fields are connections on line bundles excited me so much that I drove to Mr. Chen's home at SRTO near Berkeley. In the early 1940s, when I was a student at National Southwest Associated University, Chen Shenshen was a young professor. I took his lectures. That was before Chen Shenshen promoted the Cosine theorem and made historical contributions at the city level. Line dimensions were not important in the dimensionality scale. We talked about friendship, family, and China. When we talked about fiber worms, I told him that I had learned from SIM. Simmons, I learned the beautiful fiberworm theory and the profound Hervey-Chenville theorem. I said that what astonished me most was that the normative length formalism appears as a connection from above, and that mathematicians came up with it without any practical reference to the physical world. I said that this both shocked and puzzled me because you mathematicians could actually imagine these concepts out of thin air. He immediately objected, saying, "No, these concepts are not imaginary; they are natural and real. " Why the Creator chose natural and real, yet extremely abstract, mathematical concepts to construct the material world will probably remain a mystery forever. As you know, the great 18th-century poet William Blake once wrote, "To see a world in a grain of sand and heaven in a wildflower, hold infinity in the palm of your hand, and eternity in an hour. " When physicists understand the original structure of the world, its ultimate structure combined with some very wonderful and refined mathematical principles, I think the feeling they get is similar to William Blake's when he wrote this poem. Professor Chen Zhifan translated William Blake's poem as follows: "There is a world in a grain of sand, a heaven in a flower, hold infinity in the palm of your hand, eternity is not just a moment of time. "
