Timestamp: 2025-04-14T10:09:52.459207
Title: 【與神對話】「瘋傳」深度解密世界上最不靠譜的6大人生解惑術大揭秘—1小時帶你情緒智商飆升88%「超狂」【次部曲】(7-12全)
URL: https://youtube.com/watch?v=VkP0iyco6UI&si=_ZzH8-iVFeCtknv_
Status: success
Duration: 1:05:37

Description:
好的，这是对给定文本的提炼总结，包含核心思想、结构、关键点以及 Mermaid 概念图：

**核心思想：**

通过认识自我、调整心态、打破固有观念，实现灵魂的进化和自由，最终活出真我，享受人生这场宇宙狂欢。

**总结大纲：**

1.  **宇宙灵魂狂想曲：认识真我**
    *   太极分裂创造阴阳，宇宙大戏开幕。
    *   灵魂被投入物质世界，体验“非我”来定义“真我”。
    *   灵魂的任务是打破物质束缚，找回“我是大佬”的感觉。
    *   每个人都是身心灵三位一体的小宇宙，需要协调运作。

2.  **终极关系冒险：真诚相待**
    *   关系不是控制，而是暴露真我，表达真实感受。
    *   不要期望他人填补空缺，而是分享自己的丰盛。
    *   爱自己是前提，才能有力量爱别人。
    *   关系不是束缚，而是翅膀，要勇敢追求内心所想。
    *   诚实面对自己的感受，才能健康地处理关系中的问题。

3.  **目标与实践的嘉年华：持续进化**
    *   灵魂的终极目标是进化，打破物质的限制，找回强大的自我。
    *   实践不是苦修，而是享受创造更好自己的过程。
    *   真正的“神”是服务者，帮助他人觉醒。
    *   地狱源于迷茫，认识真我才能摆脱。
    *   真正的掌控者是选择活出真我，追求意义和幸福。
    *   从新手村到大师之路，灵魂的进阶挑战。
    *   目标要与灵魂相符，避免南辕北辙。
    *   灵魂、身体和精神要协调一致，才能顺利进化。
    *   成功不是终点，而是新的起点，要持续成长。
    *   每个人都是宇宙的主角，要找回内在的力量。

4.  **疾病与健康的灵魂战场：心态决定健康**
    *   所有疾病都是心灵种下的种子，负面情绪会侵蚀身体。
    *   情绪与内脏直接相关，坏心情比任何毒药都厉害。
    *   长期压力会削弱免疫系统，导致疾病。
    *   改变心态是逆转健康的关键，要积极乐观，学会放松。

5.  **金钱之神的神话：正确的金钱观**
    *   对金钱的矛盾态度（既爱又怕）会导致贫穷。
    *   金钱本身没有好坏，关键在于如何使用它。
    *   行动先于思考，先去做喜欢的事情，金钱自然会来。

6.  **迷宫里的对与错：选择决定人生**
    *   世上没有绝对的对错，对错是自己赋予的标签。
    *   要倾听内心的声音，选择自己想要的人生，而不是被他人左右。
    *   每一次选择都在塑造自我，要敢于承担选择的结果。
    *   真正的自由在于在没有标准的情况下做出选择。

**核心总结：**

活出真我，做自己人生的导演。

**总体框架：**

本文档构建了一个从个人灵魂深处到外在世界的旅程，涵盖了自我认知、人际关系、目标追求、身心健康、金钱观以及人生选择等多个方面，旨在引导读者认识到内在的力量，并活出精彩的人生。

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph LR
    subgraph A [宇宙开端与灵魂起源]
    A1[太极创造阴阳] --> A2[灵魂投入物质世界];
    A2 --> A3[体验"非我"，认识"真我"];
    end

    subgraph B [人际关系与自我认知]
    B1[暴露真我，表达感受] --> B2[分享丰盛，而非填补空缺];
    B2 --> B3[爱自己是前提，自信是关键];
    B3 --> B4[关系是翅膀，而非锁链];
    B4 --> B5[诚实面对，健康关系];
    end

    subgraph C [目标与实践]
    C1[灵魂的终极目标: 进化] --> C2[摆脱物质束缚，重塑自我];
    C2 --> C3[实践不是苦修，而是享受];
    C3 --> C4[真正的神是服务者];
    C4 --> C5[地狱源于迷茫，真我摆脱];
    C5 --> C6[活出真我，享受当下];
    end

   subgraph D [身心健康]
   D1[负面情绪是疾病的种子] --> D2[情绪影响内脏和免疫];
   D2 --> D3[改变心态，积极乐观];
   end

   subgraph E [金钱观]
    E1[矛盾态度导致贫穷] --> E2[金钱本身无好坏];
    E2 --> E3[先行动，后思考，财富自来];
   end

   subgraph F [人生选择]
   F1[世上无绝对的对错，个人定义] --> F2[倾听内心，而非他人声音];
   F2 --> F3[选择塑造自我，承担结果];
   F3 --> F4[无标准的选择，是自由];
   end

    A --> B & C & D & E & F;

    style A fill:#f9f,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style B fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style C fill:#ffc,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style D fill:#cff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style E fill:#fcf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style F fill:#afa,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
</Mermaid_Diagram>


Content:
WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en Hey guys Hi up. Welcome to my channel I am Nan Qianshui Your soul explorer today I'm going to take you into a crazy cosmic story To be honest, the content is a bit explosive this time. The first sentence may make you directly fry But I promise. This is absolutely the funniest thing you've ever heard The most brain-burning and funniest soul journey Are you ready? If you don't like it within 3 seconds, you will lose. Screen 1 The sound stops You will still be fascinated by this story Because today there are 3 super secrets to be revealed The last one is the kind that rolls over directly. No more nonsense Let's go straight to the soul and self Ready to upend your perspective Rhapsody of the Soul From Tai Chi to You and Me, the opening of the cosmic drama Act 1 Tai Chi This guy insists on messing up the universe Can you believe it? Beginning of the universe He's a super narcissistic guy Tai Chi dude This is what we call God. Looking in the mirror one day I feel so perfect Perfect to the point of being boring So my brain twitched Decided to split myself in half Create a drama of yin and yang This is not a simple breakup, is it? This guy creates relativity directly Just like in Journey to the West Sun Wukong a somersault cloud It's as exaggerated as digging out 108, 000 miles Come to think of it, Tai Chi was originally a one-man show boss As a result, I can't get along with myself Forcefully put the calm days Turned into a cosmic reality show Sikasi's story has only just begun Are you ready to follow me? Did you jump into this big fight? This batch is amazing Yin and Yang The universe goes from stand-alone mode Upgraded to a multiplayer online game Tai Chi thought to himself, I know what it means to be handsome I have to find someone to play with me So he waved his hand Brush has created countless souls Yes It's you and me little characters These souls were thrown into the physical universe Basically, it's a huge amusement park. There are mountains, water and monsters in it And us players What is the task given to us by Tai Chi? It's not about fighting monsters and upgrading to get equipment. It's for us to go through To figure out who you really are This operation Isn't it a bit like Xiao Yan's practice in the sky? That thing started from scratch Counterattack all the way Finally found himself a boss Act 2 You are not you You are not your mirror Sounds a bit convoluted, right? Calm down. I'll give you an example. Suppose you were in a perfect world I feel awesome every day But one day you find out Oops, there are no monsters against you. You have no idea how strong you are Yeah, Tai Chi is so cunning. He said you want to know who you are Then you have to have something that is not yours to foil This is called You are defined by not being you. Basically, you need a villain to be the protagonist. Like Iron Man in Marvel No Thanos Where did so much heroism come from? That's pretty good. Tai Chi throws us directly into a relative world Let's play hide and seek with all kinds of flying objects You are kind. Then you have to meet some bad guys to prove it You are brave. That's going to be a bit of a crisis Let you show off a Sikasi Play like this Here's a question. We souls are running I forgot who I was Just like Han Li in The Legend of Mortal Cultivation I almost forgot that I was a mortal Tai Chi, this guy saw us get lost He smiled and said it was okay. Find it slowly Anyway, you are the players I sent down. Wake up sooner or later Act III The Evolution of the Soul Leaving the body is true freedom Speaking of the mission of the soul Tai Chi gave us a super Galactic Target Evolution But this evolution It's not like Sun Wukong in the Dragon Ball becomes a super race Just change your hairstyle It's about breaking free from the constraints of matter. Recover the feeling of being the boss He also secretly told us the truth The soul chooses to leave the body Not bad at all Instead, stay in the body It's really miserable Does that sound rebellious? Like in the bible jesus said I was resurrected And people thought he was dead. Tai Chi says brothers The body is just a temporary tent The soul is the eternal VIP. I'll give you an analogy Imagine you're playing minicraft. Built a super luxurious house But one day you find out Oops, this house is so awesome It's just something in the game The real you is still sitting in front of the screen The same goes for the soul. It lives in the body house. But it knows it can pack up anytime Go to a bigger world wave Shikasi has a big twist here Tai Chi says that every soul is actually a master player It's just that some guys get too high Forgot your VIP status Isn't this a bit like Bai Xiaochun in One Mind Eternity? Obviously a boss But I always feel like a little transparent Act 4 You and I are both small universes The secret of the Trinity Here comes the big show Tai Chi guy He also gave us a really cool setting Each of us It's a trinity of body, spirit and soul. The small universe was carved out of the same mold as his old man You heard right We are like him Like Tang San's twin spirits in Douluo Continent Ostensibly an ordinary person It's actually a hidden god How does the Trinity work? The soul is responsible for being the director Shout out hey what kind of life movie do I want to make Spirit is like making up The drama is responsible for selecting the script Thinking about it Do you want to add some love to this scene? The body is the walk-on actor Listen to the instructions to act Whether it's jumping off a cliff or eating Have to be implemented properly Does it sound like a ghost grain? The smell of planning and then moving Soul setting goals Spiritual ideas Body charge Perfect fit Sikasi has a little suspense here Why do we always feel that we are not doing well? The soul is too lazy Or mental desertion Let's put this question to rest. Wait for me to slowly shake the burden for you later. Anyway, this Tai Chi guy said You have to stick together. To make a cosmic blockbuster Otherwise, the soul wants to fly The body is crawling on the ground That would be awkward Epilogue The carnival party of the soul is not over yet Speaking of which Do you think Soul This guy is a bit like a bully in the wind and clouds Overbearing side leakage on the surface In fact, there are still a lot of secrets hidden inside Tai Chi throws us into this material universe Is for us to find our way out of chaos He doesn't force you Don't rush you Like a mentor to a best friend Smile and say take your time Anyway, you are my people Sooner or later you will understand This rhapsody of the soul has just begun There are more reversals waiting for you For example, who is the boss between the soul and the body? And how we never forget we're the boss The process of becoming oops I'm so awesome These have to be broken down next time Did this story make your heart beat faster? Criticize Yourself from Tai Chi Narcissism Until we souls run into the material world to find ourselves Every scene is like a roller coaster Next time. We're going to talk about the soul and relationship shit Guaranteed to be more brain-burning and emotional Are you ready for another wave? Act 5 The Amnesia of the Soul Whose fault is it? When it comes to the soul forgetting that it is a master Are you also a little angry? I thought to myself, what kind of bad design is this? Is this guy Tai Chi deliberately messing with us? Don't be in a hurry to scold Let me help you out. This guy Tai Chi is really a bit bad He deliberately made us lose our memory as soon as we entered the material world The reason is super simple He wants us to get our memories back Experience that? I used to be the boss This is like Li Xiaoyao in The Legend of Immortals and Swords Stupidly running around at first Only later did I realize that I was a master of concealment Tai Chi wants us to be in the RPG of life Brush your own experience points But this amnesia is not just a random mess Tai Chi designed a system of forgetting Let's automatically switch to novice mode as soon as we are born Why is this happening? Because if at the beginning You know you are a top player in the soul world What else is there to play? Like Xiao Yan in the sky If you were born knowing you were a genius Do you still need the plot of being repudiated for practice and beating monsters later? Tai Chi is not suitable Where did the challenge come from? Where does growth come from without challenge? This guy is a master game designer Let's find the truth in the chaos But Tai Chi didn't completely set us free. He slipped us some hints. Like your occasional intuition Strange dreams in the middle of the night Even those sudden aha epiphanies These are like strategy clues in the devil's grain Hidden in the corner waiting for you to find The awakening of the soul Just rely on these little tips Little by little, you spell out your true identity It's a bit like playing a decryption level in the wind and cloud Find the key password to enter the next level Did you find your password? Act 6 The Infighting of the Trinity Who is holding back Let's talk about body, mind and soul The Trinity The relationship is theoretical They should be like Liu Guanzhang in Romance of the Three Kingdoms Taoyuan knot Unite and Invincible But what about reality? They are often like the four disciples in Journey to the West If there is a disagreement, start a quarrel The soul cries out to me to evolve In pursuit of cosmic truth The spirit says oops The outside world is so scary It's better to brush dramas at home to go to your body Worse chance I'm hungry Eat braised pork rice first As a result, the great plan of the soul It was messed up by these two tow bottles Why is this happening? Because of the body and mind of these two guys It is particularly susceptible to the temptations of the material world The body loves to eat, sleep, and be cool Spirituality Love Random Love Conspiracy The boss of the soul can only stare at the side Tai Chi says this is your test These three brothers have to work together to break through the barrier It's not like Monkey King in a Dragon Ball. Do you have to train your qi well to become a super three? The soul has to be well tuned body and spirit Tell them to stop holding them back But the soul is not only passively beaten Tai Chi gave him a great summoning power As long as you want The soul can be spiritually cultivated through meditation Even shouting that my life is up to me Awakening the potential of body and mind It's like a sage in a saint sage Microcosmic explosion at critical moment instant turnaround So don't underestimate the soul. He can lead a counterattack at any time Act 7: Evolving My Reincarnation The ultimate choice for the soul Speaking of soul evolution And this didn't happen overnight. The Evolution of Tai Chi Design It's a bit like the road to cultivation in the biography of mortal cultivation Have to upgrade step by step From Qi training to foundation building To Nascent Soul Last ascent The same goes for the soul. Every life accumulates experience level up But if your life is too bad The soul will say oops It's too hard Let's start over Then you enter the reincarnation mode Reincarnation again Not punishment It was opportunity. Tai Chi says you can play it as many times as you want I'm not in a hurry It's a bit like in a perfect world Each reincarnation can be strengthened with the experience of the previous life So the soul is actually not afraid of reincarnation Instead, I feel that this is an opportunity to brush points But here's the thing. If you are always obsessed with the material world Forgetting the goal of evolution That would be bad. Just like Bai Xiaochun in one thought of eternity It's stuck halfway through the repair. Can't get into the next session The same goes for the soul. Too obsessed with bodily pleasures You will be trapped in an endless loop Never level up That's why Tai Chi said Leaving the body is not scary Stuck inside is tragic Act 8 The Great Conspiracy Behind Tai Chi's Cosmic Blueprint Finally, let's dig the bottom of this brother Tai Chi Why is he playing such a big cosmic game? Is it just idle and have nothing to do? No, definitely not. Tai Chi has huge ambitions He wants to purify us souls To achieve his own ultimate experience What do you mean? The growth of each of our souls They are all helping him collect cosmic experience points Let him know himself better This is like Tang San in Douluo Continent After becoming a god, you have to help the god world solve the trouble Tai Chi also relies on us to upgrade his universe. But here's the big twist. Tai Chi is not squeezing us. We are one with him. We evolve, he evolves. We are happy and he is happy too This is the so-called unity of God and man So don't think tai chi is a superior boss He is actually in your heart and mine Play with us End of the game The carnival of the soul never ends This rhapsody of the soul Just like a martial arts battle in the wind and clouds There are always new challenges and new masters emerging This game was designed by Tai Chi No end Only infinite Maybe next time. We need to talk The things that happen to the soul in relationships Why do you keep getting scum scum And what's the secret to the soul and love? These questions. I'll sell it first The next episode is guaranteed to be more brainstorming and hilarious Remember to subscribe to likes See you next time Hey guys Let's go straight into today's cosmic adventure I am your soul guide Nan Qianshui After talking about the brain-burning drama of soul and self last time This time I'm going to take you to another super exciting topic. Relationships are more tortuous than martial arts novels It's more brain-burning than immortal dramas But don't panic. I promise to use the most down-to-earth and funniest way Let you laugh and get the big truth of life Are you ready? If you don't like it within 3 seconds, you will lose a lot. because Here are 5 super-hard secrets about relationships today The last one directly makes you turn the table and shout 666. No more nonsense Let's start a relationship directly Ready to upend your perspective The Ultimate Adventure in Relationships: A Fully Upgraded Edition of Our Show The Nature of Relationships Reveals Itself It's not a ghost game. Have you ever considered Relationship Sometimes it's like playing a game of catching ghosts In love, you want to catch each other's pigtails Like he forgot to reply to his message. In a friendship, you want to take advantage For example, if you borrow money and don't pay it back, you are justifiable Even with his family For example, who received a larger red envelope during the Chinese New Year? But what is the truth? Relationships are not for you to capture others It's about exposing yourself. What do you mean by exposing yourself? It's not about making the bank password public. It's about showing who you really are. For example, if you quarrel with your partner You just bite the bullet and say I'm fine. Or to be honest, I'm really mad that you're always late. A true relationship guru Not busy being a detective Find each other's weaknesses But dare When the protagonist reveals his feelings and values Like the clouds in the wind and clouds It's cool. But he never hid his pain Domineering with sincerity That's what relationships are all about. Here's a practical example. I have a friend Every date feels like a criminal trial Stare at the other party's mobile phone to see if there are any ambiguous messages. As a result, the relationship got worse and worse Then he changed his ways and let go Expose your unease Say I'm afraid you don't like me The other party was moved Relationships have grown by leaps and bounds So stop playing ghost hunting Relationships are the stage It's a battlefield problem Why do we always try to control others? Don't worry, this secret will be solved later Write it down Act II The Complete Truth Don't expect others to fill your hole Many people feel like they are missing something when they are single Find a partner and you can complete yourself As a result, I found out after finding the person The other party is not Superman But just as flawed mortals Two leaky buckets leaning together The water is still flowing It's like buying a second-hand PS5. And it was broken. Have to fix it yourself The truth is that this relationship It's not about asking someone else to fill your hole. Ask others to share your fullness You have to feel great first Like a fully equipped PS5 Hardware OK game fully loaded Only one teammate needs to fight monsters together Instead of relying on teammates to repair parts Let's say you like to draw. Then find someone you love to create with. Instead of expecting him to teach you how to hold a paintbrush Relationships should be parties of shared joy Not a garage But why do we always feel that we are not good enough? This strange society and education From small to large Mom and Dad said your grades weren't good enough The teacher said you didn't work hard enough The idol drama says that if you don't have a partner, you lose. As a result, we are desperately looking for approval from others Forget that you are already powerful Like a saint Seiya's Seiya felt like a loser at first Only later did I realize that I was the god of war Relationships are where you get your confidence back. Not a prison that makes you feel inferior Reality Case I know a girl I feel like a failure when I'm single After falling in love, I think the other party is not good enough Later, she began to appreciate herself Fall in love with your own humor and talent As a result, peach blossoms are out of luck So don't wait for someone else to save you Save yourself first The hidden boss of the third act loves himself first To love others What is the greatest relationship trap? It's not that the other party sucks It's that you don't love yourself enough You are not confident You will feel that others are not worthy of love This is like Xiaohu Wang of Humen At first I suspected that I was not qualified I understood later Only believe in yourself To earn respect I heard a story. There is a boy in Taiwan I used to have low self-esteem Feeling unworthy of being loved So in a relationship, always please each other As a result, his girlfriend looked down on him more and more Then he started exercising Learn new skills regain confidence The next relationship is directly regarded as a treasure by the other party That's the hard truth. You have to feel valuable first So that others can see your value But there's a big misunderstanding here Many people find it selfish to love themselves Actually, no. Loving yourself is not just about yourself It's about giving yourself the energy to love others. Just like Tang San of Douluo Continent Practice your martial spirit first To protect Xiao Wu You don't love yourself Where does the strength come from to love others? So stop feeling guilty of loving yourself Liberate your self-esteem It is recommended to look in the mirror every day Tell yourself I'm great Sounds stupid. But it works. Try for a month Make sure you have more confidence in the relationship Act IV The Chains of Obligation Don't Let Relationships Become Caged A lot of people make relationships look like ascetic training. I think I have to put up with him I have to take care of him As a result, I tired myself into a dog I have a friend To maintain a bad relationship for obligation They were both in excruciating pain. Then he let go and pursue his own happiness As a result, both parties are released The truth is that relationships should not be chains But the wings that let you fly Don't do anything because you should It's about asking yourself, I want to be in this relationship. What kind of person to become It's a bit like the Chinese hero of the Chinese hero He was never kidnapped by duty Always follow your heart They're freer. Why do we always feel obligated? Blame traditional culture. The older generation said Endure calm for a while But it took a long time You will explode Just like the magical Nangong Yi Shoot if you can't bear it anymore Relationships are the stage Not a cage Don't let foreign objects ruin your happiness Practical tricks next time you feel stressed Ask yourself, do I really want to do this? If you don't want to Just be brave enough to say no Try it and it's guaranteed to be 100 times easier. Act Five: The Antidote to Grief Be honest with your feelings In a relationship, it is inevitable to be sad, misunderstood and betrayed Who hasn't met Don't hold on now To be honest, I'm sad. Then figure out why it's sad This is like Han Lishmen from mortal cultivation When betraying him He didn't run away Face the pain Finally get stronger I heard about one case. A girl is always hurt by her boyfriend But she held back It keeps collapsing. Then she learned to say I don't like you So her boyfriend starts to respect her. Things got better. Sad is not scary It's scary to not dare to face it Be honest. Relationships are healthy How can I tell if it's my own problem? Or the other party's problem? Ask yourself simply, I am in this relationship What kind of person do you want to be? If you want to be a tolerant person The other party's fault is your test If you want to be strong Pain is your whetstone Relationships are training grounds Not a battlefield Call today 5 ultra-hard-core secrets of relationships are thrown out in one go I don't know if you got blown up. In fact, it is related to this class It's like a marathon without an end It's not about how fast you run. But did you enjoy the scenery along the way? Have you ever learned to stand up more gracefully after a fall? As we talked about today The friend whose every date is like a prisoner on trial He went from catching ghosts to exposing From Doubt to Trust Finally, true happiness is found in relationships Isn't this experience a living example? Relationships are not a disc-on-disc game. It's an adventure full of surprises and challenges. And we told a lot of stories. Like a saint in the wind and rain Seiya's Seiya Wang Xiaohu of Longhumen Tang San of Douluo Continent Chinese hero of Chinese hero The miraculous Nangong Yi Han Li of Mortal Cultivation In fact, it is like Han Li in the biography of mortal cultivation He came from an obscure mountain village poor boy Experienced countless betrayals and injuries But he didn't run away Always face the pain Facing the betrayal of the teacher He's not complaining. It's about being honest with your situation. Strive to enhance strength Emotionally He never asks Always be sincere It is this honesty with yourself And honesty about relationships. Let him finally become the pinnacle of the human world And finally. I also protected all my important friends around me Now is the time for you to speak up In today's content We threw a lot of questions Remember that? Let me review it for you again Why do we always try to control others? Relationships are where you get your confidence back. Not a prison that makes you feel inferior that Have you ever locked yourself in a prison of inferiority? Have you ever been obligated And let the relationship become a cage How did you break free The last time you were honest with yourself When do you feel inside? What did that experience inspire you? The top 5 relationship secrets I will talk about today Which do you think is the most popular? Which one shocked you the most? It is mentioned in the article that you will lose without a partner About this. Without a partner, do you really lose? Where to lose And do you have any personal insights? And as mentioned in the last paragraph of the article Han Li in the Biography of Mortal Cultivation Protect your important friends In everyone's heart, there must be someone they want to protect So in every relationship What do you really want to protect? And face protecting or pursuing yourself And the other party or other people keep forcing you When it's time to change What would you do? Sharing of real cases in the article you Do you have any real cases around you? What can I share with you? If you like this video, please leave a message and share it. See you next time. A carnival of goals and practices The Advanced Challenge of the Soul What is the ultimate goal of the soul? Cultivation or party Have you ever considered Soul What is the purpose of living? It is the fruit of cultivation that soars to the sky Still save enough energy Have a cosmic party Bring all the souls together Sounds ridiculous, right? But this is not an exaggeration. Imagine that. If the soul had a purpose Will he be as confused as we are? Are you working seriously? Or let go According to the universe boss The ultimate goal of the soul is to evolve Not the kind of super Saiyan The Evolution of Muscle Explosion It's about breaking free from the prison of matter Get back the feeling that I was already awesome It's a little bit like Han Li in Mortal Cultivation Biography From a country boy Cultivate all the way to the Ascending Celestial Realm The same goes for the soul. Have to break through layer by layer Finally, we can stand on the top of the universe Shout that I am finally free But here's a super flip. Tai Chi says the end of the evolution of the soul Not a fixed state It's about growth. What do you mean? That you can always be more compulsive, newer, smarter, cooler. No end This is like number 10 in a perfect world To the edge of the universe Discovery of a new continent Just keep rushing Isn't this a carnival party for the soul? Never End Go on forever Act 1 The Truth of Practice Stop being an ascetic Speaking of meditation Do you have it in your head? Tang monk like that Eat vegetarian scriptures every day Gotta be chased by monsters Bitter as hell But I'll tell you what. True practice That's not the bitter pattern at all. Tai Chi says that practice is not self-denial You're not giving up on happiness. But put your mind, body and soul Invest fully in the process of creating a better version of yourself This is like Tang San in Douluo Continent Enjoy the pleasure of fighting while practicing Pursue a higher realm have fun I know a spiritual teacher from Taiwan He was a workaholic. Working overtime until midnight every day And then he had this epiphany. Let go of obsession Start practicing But he didn't become a hermit They're freer. Drink tea every day, write books, chat with friends He also opened a spiritual center Business is too good to be good He said that meditation is not an escape from life It's about enjoying life in a smarter way This is the true meaning of cultivation Stop forcing yourself to be an ascetic Learn to live with love and wisdom He's the king. What is the work of God in Act 2? Servant or boss Do you think God is cold? Sitting in the cloud all day giving orders Like a stern The boss is wrong. Tai Chi says that the true God is to be the servant of the greatest number of people Help everyone become a god This sounds It's a little bit like the sage in the Tao Te Ching. Take the hearts of the people as your heart But in the vernacular God is not here to take care of you I'm here to help you. Always ready to be your super coach Good luck with the upgrade. For example? Look at the Monkey King in the Dragon Ball. He is not just a hero And I taught Gohan Vegeta to make them stronger. Finally, everyone fights monsters together So is God. His goal is to awaken every soul I found myself actually awesome So don't think of God as a superior parent He's more like the one next to you shouting go for it You can do it, super comrade. Act 3 The Truth of Fate Where is Hell Many people worry that they will go to hell But Tai Chi says something very hardcore Your destiny must be happy Except I don't understand this truth Nothing else. What does hell mean? Meaning that hell is not a real place It's when you don't understand who you really are That confusion and pain Just like the wind in the wind and clouds I thought I was a bad person when I was controlled by demonic energy He's basically a good guy. As long as you wake up Hell is gone I have a friend I used to have depression I feel like my life is a mess Then he got into spirituality. Discovering that you are actually a soul with infinite possibilities Suddenly enlightened What are you smiling like every day now? So hell is nowhere else It's in your head. As long as you want You can kick him away anytime. Into the sun Act 4 The true master lives or lives Finally, Tai Chi drops a golden sentence, a true master Is to choose to live Rather than people who live Sounds simple But think deeply What is life Just being trivia Walk along, repeat work every day, eat and sleep Like a robot What about living? It's about living your life. Pursuit of meaning and happiness Just like the Chinese hero in the Chinese hero Never bound by the world Always moving towards higher goals There is an entrepreneur in central Taiwan He was a workaholic. After 996 days, he became enlightened Start pursuing spiritual growth Now he is both a successful businessperson Spiritual teacher again More comfortable than anyone else He said that life is about being yourself Don't be dragged away by days anymore This is the realm of the master Live your life Every day feels like the end of a vacation The carnival of goals and practices never ends Okay, that's it for goals and practice Is it a bit brain-burning and funny? It's like a martial arts battle in the wind and clouds There are always new challenges and new masters waiting for you But just remember these few tricks Purification has no end Practice to enjoy God is your coach You can be in this spiritual drama And it was great. Next time. Let's talk about the soul and money shit Why can't you always make money? What secrets does the soul have? Let's sell it first Next time it's guaranteed to be more hilarious and brain-burning Leave a message and let me know. Hey guys Welcome back. I am your soul guide Nan Qianshui After talking about the first act of goals and practice last time Your response has been overwhelming. The message said that there will be another wave of harder core I won't let you down today. This is the second installment of Objectives and Practice Let's start with the advanced challenges of the soul Take you into a more intense battle More hilarious cosmic adventures Are you ready? If you don't like it within 3 seconds, you will lose a lot. Because here are 6 super exciting secrets today The last one directly makes you slap the table and shout it's amazing No more nonsense Let's go directly to the goal and practice The second one is here. Act 1 The Advanced Challenge of the Soul From Novice Village to Master Road Last time I said that spiritual practice is not suffering He was playing games. But this game is not just casual play But from the novice village A hardcore challenge all the way to the master level What is the goal of the soul? Not to earn money to marry a wife and build a house Or do you have to evolve into your cosmic self? This is like Xiao Yan in the sky From a small transparent practice to a fighting emperor The process is painful But every level up is cool to fly Same thing in real life. There is a street performer in Taiwan I used to play guitar. Just make a few hundred dollars a day One day he suddenly woke up I don't think I should just be a novice player So I started practicing my voice and learning to act And went to the draft A few years later He went from a roadside stand to a singer of minor fame This is the evolution of the soul From messing around to being yourself You said that you are now a little white in the novice village. Still in the rush Act II The Mist of Objectives You really know what you're doing The soul needs to evolve Goals matter. But here's the thing. Are you sure what you are chasing now? Is it what the soul wants? Many people run in the wrong direction Still running oversold Like Pigsy in Journey to the West When you see a beautiful woman, rush forward As a result, I was always pitted by monsters There's also fog. For example, I have a friend Dream of becoming a chef As a result, his family forced him to take the civil service exam Stability is guaranteed He barely made it to shore Live like a walking dead every day The soul has long shouted that I want to cook vegetables What are you doing with all these files? This is the fog of purpose. Someone gave you a blueprint Hiding the heart of your soul So the first secret is to stop and ask yourself The target is yours. Someone else forced it. You are like the wind in the wind and clouds Tuan Tuan who was fooled by Xiongba I found out at the end I want to be free Act 3 The Miracle of Practice Don't Force Yourself Push yourself There is a cool technique to practice, don't force yourself Instead, force yourself What does it mean that others force themselves to become saints? It's easy to force yourself to grow It's a little bit like Han Li in Mortal Cultivation Biography He never forced himself to soar in one breath But practice steadily every day It just sort of came naturally. What about reality? I know a yoga teacher He used to force himself to practice three hours a day Knee injury I've got anxiety. Then he changed it to half an hour a day Practice whatever you want As a result, not only the body is better He even opened a yoga studio. Business is booming The second secret practice is not a triathlon. Don't push yourself to death Relax and progress faster The soul likes to eat meat You should also learn Act IV The Soul's Mate Body and Spirit Who's paddling? Soul evolution does not go it alone It depends on the two teammates of body and mind But the two brothers often paddled The soul cries out to me to become stronger My body says I'm tired Go to sleep first Mentally worse Don't make me. It's scary out there This triangular relationship It's like the Monkey King, Vegeta and Colin in the Dragon Ball. Wukong wants to rush Vegeta loves face Krillin dragged his feet As a result, the combat effectiveness never goes up I have a friend Soul wants to start a business Spiritual Sparrow Conspiracy Say what if it fails The body is too lazy to move Tiantianwo eats instant noodles at home As a result, the entrepreneurial dream dragged on for 5 years and did not take off Until he started coaching these two teammates Exercise for half an hour every day Push the spirit to think optimistic Business is picking up The third secret soul is the big brother But you have to take good care of the little brother Otherwise, the evolution plan will be stuck forever Act Five: The Ultimate Reversal of Purpose: Success is Not the End Is the starting point You think the goal of soul evolution is success Wrong, success is not the end. It was the beginning. This is like number 10 in a perfect world Becoming the Desolate Sky Emperor is not the end But start exploring the bigger universe In reality too I heard a true story There is an entrepreneur in Taiwan who made hundreds of millions It was so empty that I wanted to jump off the building And he went into philanthropy. Teaching rural children to read To find true happiness This is the ultimate inversion of the soul External success is just a springboard Inner growth is the main theme The fourth secret is don't make the goal the destination. The soul wants infinite evolution Success is just a formality Animation act six The ultimate orgy of spiritual practice, you are the protagonist of the universe Finally a big bomb The ultimate secret to spiritual practice is You are already the protagonist of the universe Tai Chi God said that you are originally a part of me Just forgot It's like an eternal thought of Bai Xiaochun In the end, he found himself the emperor It's been a long time You too. The goal and practice are not to make you into someone else It's about finding your superhuman self. I have a friend I used to think I was like a snake in life Then I started keeping a diary Reflect on the happy moments of each day Slowly I realized that I was actually very strong Now he owns a coffee shop. Greet guests with a smile every day Live like a master This is the carnival of spiritual practice You're not chasing your target. It's about awakening the cosmic power within. The fifth secret is that you are your own god Practice is a carnival party Don't forget to dance The Road to Awakening Hey hey brothers and sisters I'm going to drop a super bomb in the beginning You guys ready? Your whole life? Maybe I'm not here to eat and wait to die at all But to become a cosmic god Are you a little confused? Think I'm messing around Don't worry. This time we're going to follow a super famous guy Liu in Romance of the Three Kingdoms Zen is also the Dou who cannot be lifted up Take a crazy counterattack trip There are three major conflicts in this episode Three hilarious terriers There is also a super big reversal hidden in the back Guaranteed to make you like chasing mortals and cultivating immortals Can't stop Get your little bench ready This trip is absolutely exhilarating Act 1 The chaotic life of Adou With unsustainable labels Speaking of our protagonist Liu Chan Nickname Adou The little emperor of Shu Han during the Three Kingdoms period It was a miserable day. When someone mentions him The first sentence is that this guy is hopeless A Dou who can't stand it His father Liu Bei also told Zhuge Liang before leaving The boy's heart is not good How troublesome are you? As a result, Shu Han was still destroyed by Wei State After Ah Dou was captured, he happily said that he was happy here As soon as this sentence comes out It's a laughingstock of history Everybody thinks he's a loser. One day, Ah Dou was in a daze in a prisoner camp in Wei Hear two guards chatting This guy is a real emperor Look at him like that More cowardly than the broken waves in Fengyuan Ah Dou listened A tingling pain in my heart But he laughed and said haha Whatever you say. I have nothing to pursue anyway But his heart was turned upside down Am I really that useless? Living is not just eating And wait for treatment? He wants to ask someone But he was surrounded by guys who laughed at him Who cares about him? Then a mysterious old man appeared This old man is wearing a Taoist robe Xianfeng Dao bone Like a living fairy coming out of the Tao Te Ching Claiming to be Guiguzi's apprentice Named Xuanjizi He looked at Dou Say it slowly, boy Your life? Just like Guo Jing in the biography of the eagle hero Full of potential before I get it But fell asleep Ah Dou was stunned What do you mean? I can still be saved The divine machine smiles like an old fox See if you want to wake up True practice is not just messing around It's about becoming a god. The second act: the crisis of muddling through life and the challenge of the divine opportunity Ah Dou listened to the words of the divine machine I feel like I'm on fire But it goes out quickly He mumbled to become a god I can't even get enough to eat. What kind of mysterious tricks are you practicing, but you won't let him go Throw a bomb You think you live to live No, you're here to turn yourself into a cosmic god Ah Dou's eyes widened I think this old man's brain is broken But Xuanjizi went on to talk about real practice It's about taking out your mind, body and soul Pinch yourself in a godly manner Your father, Liu Bei, Zhuge Liang, they all know this truth But you are still a Dou who can't be helped These words are like Tang San's spirit abilities in Douluo Continent Poke directly into Adou's heart Recall that I have eaten and waited to die every day in my life He didn't even have a goal when he was emperor Shu Han is gone He didn't care. But now listen to Xuanjizi say He suddenly panicked. Have I really been wasting my life? What if Shika wakes up? He doesn't even have the courage to stand up. Xuanjizi saw through his mind Sneered, don't make excuses If you want to change, you have to act I have a task for you To help the old and sick in the camp repair their houses Don't think too much. Do it first Ah Dou thought to himself that this old man was here to piss me off But he just bit the bullet. Unexpectedly, after repairing the house Those people gratefully took his hand and said Ah Dou You are such a nice person. At this moment, his heart was actually warm Like in a perfect world The satisfaction of eating delicious food on the 10th Step 3 Action Awakens the Soul Adou's counterattack begins Ah Dou returned to Xuan Jizi Proud old man I finished building the house How about Xuanjizi squinting Throw a good sentence But that's just the beginning. You're not here to live It's to live out the soul Ah Dou was stunned Ask what it means to live out the soul Xuan Jizi pointed at his chest Your soul wants to become a god But you keep it like trash Of course not. True practice Is asking myself every day what kind of person I want to be Then do that person's thing Idol was awakened by this sentence He started helping people every day From building a house To teaching children to read Then to help General Wei make plans I didn't expect him to get stronger and stronger Even Emperor Cao Rui of Wei heard of it Call him to the palace Ask you why this kid is so motivated all of a sudden A Dou smiled and said that I used to feel that I had no purpose in life Now I find that I can help people I can also become the person I want to be Cao Rui listened My jaw dropped. I thought to myself, is this still the reluctant trash? Shika's bigger reversal comes One day, Xuanjizi suddenly said, Do you know? The true God is not above But to be the servant of all Help everyone become a god Ah Dou listened Brain buzzing I thought to myself, isn't that saying I have to help someone wake up He began to encourage everyone in the eyes of the captive Let them let go of their grievances Retrieve the target As a result, the atmosphere in the camp is getting better and better Even the guards couldn't resist joining Said this guy was a geek But I'm happy to follow him The truth of the fourth act's goal and the suspense of the future Story ends here Ah Dou has finally been reborn From a Dou who can't be helped to a Dou for everyone He got it. Living is not a mess But to make one's own soul into a god Like Bai Xiaochun in One Mind Eternity Pursue everlasting growth He said to Xuanjizi, old man I love this feeling so much now Helping others is helping yourself Xuan Jiezi smiles like Su Haozhen in the Thunderbolt Puppet Show Pat him on the shoulder boy You're finally awake. True practice It's about choosing who you want to be every day Then do that person's thing Brother sister Ladies, did this story ignite your little universe? Adou tells us that the real goal is not to live a life It's about living your soul. As the Bible says, I am the way, the truth and the life. What do you want to become? What to do Sika changes her mindset It's not that simple. Right, just like A Dou from waste to counterattack Took some effort This trick acts first Post-thinking is like playing a game Check the level first and then think about the strategy The soul will naturally follow Speaking of which, I have to sell it And you know what? Some people don't have goals because they're lazy It's a bigger secret In the next episode, let's talk about the blueprint of the soul There is also a super shocking Easter egg waiting for you. That's it for today The story of Adou tells us that the goal is in the soul Practice in action Life talent 666 Do you think so? Brothers and sisters Disease and health Battlefield of the mind hey Have you ever considered Sickness is actually a traitor to the heart Hello, brothers and sisters. Welcome to my channel I am Nan Qianshui Have you ever heard the crazy saying? All diseases You made it all yourself Do you think this sentence is highly controversial? It's like flirting with your philosophy of life And I'm sure somebody's going to roll their eyes. What nonsense do you think? Isn't a cold caused by someone else sneezing? But don't worry, what we're going to talk about today It's this love-hate topic Disease and health Is fate messing up? Or is it the little monster in us? Are you ready? This episode is full of money There are also a few super reversals hidden I promise to get you high like a roller coaster Let's start with a story Then peel off the truth layer by layer There's a big easter egg waiting for you at the end Don't run away halfway. The first act of Xiao Ming's health crisis and mysterious old story In a busy town There is a young man named Xiaoming Usually alive and kicking Moments of Pistachio But recently he has become skinny Like a frosted eggplant Stay at home all day in a daze Because his grandmother has a strange disease The doctor said what kind of heart disease Moping all day No appetite for anything Xiao Ming is anxious Went to the hospitals in town Doctors can only prescribe medicine Just rest as much as you want. Xiao Ming thought Isn't that just nonsense? So he decided to find the most mysterious old Chinese doctor in town Grandpa Li, who claims to be able to see the heart Grandpa Li meets Xiaoming Just laughing like an old urchin Touch the beard and say lad Don't worry about your grandma's illness. It can't be done with medicine Xiao Ming listened Staring like copper bells What do you do? Grandpa Li narrowed his eyes Slowly throw a bomb All the diseases. It's all seeds planted in the heart Xiao Ming was dumbfounded on the spot I thought to myself, is this old man bluffing me? But Grandpa Li went on to say Does your grandmother always worry? I'm afraid you won't have a good time. Xiao Ming was stunned I nodded, but my heart exploded Isn't this the daily routine of grandma? Old enough for his exams Worried about his job I keep talking about the firewood, rice, oil and salt at home Grandpa Li smiled Continue to replenish the knife Those worries, resentments, fears Like a little monster in my heart Slowly gnawing at his body Areca nuts didn't fall from the sky He came up with it. Xiao Ming was in a cold sweat Isn't that saying Grandma's illness was caused by himself This idea is too crazy But he couldn't help but ask how could I help him? Grandpa Li patted him on the shoulder The tone is warm like the warm winter sun Let him take it easy Let go of those knots Smile more and be cheerful The body will be fine naturally. Act II: The Seed of the Soul and the Counterattack of Health Xiao Ming with a half-believing heart Love returns home I thought what the old man said was mysterious Is it really a psychological problem? And he started watching her. I found that she frowned all day long Not worried that he doesn't have a girlfriend I'm just afraid that the chickens of Lao Wang's house next door will come to steal the rice again The more you look at it, the more you feel Grandpa Li's theory of spiritual seeds seems to make sense So he decided to give it a try Take grandma for a walk in the park every day Tell some jokes about Xiao Yan's counterattack in the fighting sky And imitate the funny movements of the Monkey King in the Dragon Ball Make grandma giggle I didn't expect a few weeks. Grandma's complexion is really getting better Even the doctor exclaimed What panacea did this old lady take? Xiao Ming's heart bloomed with joy But there's a big question mark. Are all diseases caused by psychology? Sikasi, this is too exaggerated A cold is caused by a virus Cancer is not cell mutation. What does this have to do with the heart? That's where we need some hardcore dissection. Listen up brothers and sisters Don't think this is just Xiao Ming's story This is a big cosmic secret Just like in the Tao Te Ching, Tao Shengyi Lifetime two two three Sansheng The thought in your heart is that one It can produce a million outcomes Worry, resentment, fear This negative energy is like a conspiracy in the devil's grain Lurking in your heart Sneakily mess with your body You always think I'm so handsome. Life is hard. These thoughts are like seeds. Buried in your spiritual field What grows is not a healthy flower It's the sting of the disease. The third act: from martial arts to medical books Uncovering the Truth about Health Speaking of which We need a big twist Xiaoming, this kid doesn't give up Run through the book I want to figure out how this works He opened the Yellow Emperor's internal scriptures It says anger hurts the liver Like sadness and think about hurting the spleen Sad lungs and fear of hurting the kidneys This doesn't mean Emotions are directly linked to the internal organs of the body He looked up the Compendium of Materia Medica again I found that Mr. Li Shizhen had already said A bad mood is stronger than any poison Xiao Ming thought This is not what Grandpa Li said The little monster in my heart is really behind the pain But that's not shocking enough Let's do another crossover reversal Xiao Ming remembered Huang Rong in the biography of Jin Yong's eagle shooting hero That golden sentence is not covered But if he's worried all day I guess I fell ill long ago I can't keep up with Guo Jing's Jianghu Road Let's take a look at Han Li, who is passed down by mortal cultivators This guy has never suffered anything on the road to cultivation But he's as steady as an old dog Never complain The body has withstood countless disasters That's what it's telling us. Does your mindset determine your health? How can Sikasi be so simple in reality? You say I have a cold because I think too much What is a virus? Freebies picked up on the side of the road Don't worry, there's a big easter egg to be revealed here Here comes science. According to the information found online I checked it carefully. The American Heart Association study says Long-term stress It turns your immune system into a tofu scum project The virus collapses as soon as it arrives There's also research from Harvard. Worry and resentment can mess with your endocrine system Hormone imbalance The body is like a tyrant in the wind and clouds Internal force Sooner or later self-destruct This doesn't mean Sick root Is it really buried in your heart? The fourth step is to change your mindset. Reverse a healthy life Xiaoming is completely convinced now He started practicing spiritual detoxification with his grandmother every day What is detoxification? Just stop thinking about those bad things Think about happy things Like the feeling of Tang San counterattacking in Douluo Continent Or the heroic number 10 who eats all over the world in a perfect world He also forced himself to break his bad habits Don't stay up late, don't overeat To learn the Thunderbolt Puppet Show Li Su is really calm Take a deep breath every day Tell yourself I'm healthy I'm awesome. What happened? Grandma's illness is really getting milder and milder Her own old problems Stomach pain and headache quietly slipped away The story goes here. We have to come to a conclusion All the diseases. It's really psychological first It's like the Bible says. What you have in mind Will become your reality Worry, resentment, fear These negative emotions are like a dirty trick in the devil's grain Hurt your body secretly Shikashi can turn around by changing his mindset You have to take care of yourself Like your switch console Love your body Eat less junk food Move more, don't stay up late watching dramas Otherwise Your body is worse than Li Xiaoyao in the Legend of Immortals and Swords Can't take it Speaking of which, I have to sell it You know, some ailments It's actually a memory from your previous life Doesn't that sound amazing? Don't worry, let's talk about past and present lives in the next episode There's a bigger twist waiting for you That's it for today. The story of Xiao Ming and his grandmother tells us Mood positive body Life talent 666 Do you think so? Brothers and sisters The Meditation of the God of Money and the Counterattack of Ah Cai Hello, do you ever think that money is a big bad guy? Welcome to my channel I am Nan Qianshui After talking about how spiritual seeds mess up health last time Today we're going to have a super exciting topic Money I'm going to drop a bomb to start Are you ready? Family love is actually the super villain in your heart Love him and hate him This contradictory mood Bigger than TV series Did it catch your eye in a second? In this episode, I'm going to take you with a famous guy Guo Jing in the biography of the eagle hero To unlock the secrets of money We have three conflicts There are a few super hilarious memes buried in the back to solve Guaranteed to make you as unstoppable as chasing the sky Get your popcorn ready It wasn't an easy trip. Focus at the end Waiting for you, don't blink. The first act of Guo Jing's poor life and the contradiction between money Speaking of our protagonist Guo Jing This silly boy in the martial arts world Although he has good martial arts But there's a lot of confusion about money. One day he practiced on Peach Blossom Island Huang Rong ran over and said with a smile, Brother Jing. You have practiced 666. But your pockets are emptier than the Beggar Gang Are you going to be a pauper for the rest of your life? Guo Jing was stunned Scratch your head and say naively that I don't like money. That thing is dirty I heard it's still the root of all evil I'd better concentrate on practicing to save the country Huang Rong listened I almost laughed. Your idea is too old-fashioned How can I buy buns without money? Do you want me to grill fish for you every day? Guo Jing was torn in his heart Does he really love money? Who doesn't like to think that if you have money, you can buy a good MacGai house I can also treat my brothers to roast chicken How cool, but he also heard his master Zhou Chuji say Money is the root of evil Monks should stay away from him This is good It's like he's overturned the mixed wine in his heart Love money but fear that he will ruin his innocence It's better than the situation Nie Feng and the not-amazing brotherhood are still complicated On this day, he went down the mountain to help the Beggar Gang run errands I saw an old man selling biscuits on the road Bad business doesn't even come to a fly Guo Jing is soft-hearted He took out the few copper coins he had and gave them all to the old man. You shouldn't take money for doing good deeds, right? The old man was moved to tears But Guo Jing turned around and took a look I didn't even have the carriage fare for the return journey. I had to walk back to Peach Blossom Island As I walk, I mutter what the hell is this money? Why do I keep having trouble with him? The Misunderstanding of Money and the Crisis of Peach Blossom Island Guo Jing's ambivalence Make his life worse and worse Huang Rong can't stand it Pull him to find the old urchin Zhou Botong to solve his doubts Zhou Botong meets Guo Jing Laugh, you silly boy The view of money is more mysterious than the Tao Te Ching You love him and are afraid of him Isn't this just fighting with yourself? Guo Jing blinked Ask if the money is good or bad Zhou Botong jumps up Throws a monkey fist Saying the money is good or bad It was your ideas that messed him up. You think he's a badass? He will show you You think he's cute? He will become your little padded jacket. Guo Jing seems to understand But then something big happened on Peach Blossom Island Huang Yaoshi received the tax bill from the imperial court Said the silver to be traded Otherwise, the island will be confiscated Guo Jing is in a hurry I thought I wouldn't make money now But his scalp tingles at the thought of money I think rich people are either bad guys or corrupt officials If you make a lot of money Wouldn't it also go bad? He ran to find Huang Rong With a bitter face, Rong'er said she didn't want to go bad. But no money How is this going? Huang Rong rolled her eyes Throw out a golden sentence, brother Jing Your concept of money is outdated than Sun Tzu's Art of War You think money is bad? That's why he was avoiding you. It's not that you drove the God of Wealth away yourself Guo Jing was stunned Stormy waves set off in my heart Is it really my thoughts that hurt me? Sikasi, this is so bizarre He decided to try Huang Rong's suggestion Change your mindset towards money But how can it be that easy? Act Three: Action Changes Thinking Guo Jing's Wealth Counterattack Huang Rong gave Guo Jing a task Don't think about money, okay? Do something you love See if you can make some extra money Guo Jing thought for a while Decided to go down the mountain to teach children martial arts He loved to teach. I don't think it's a bad thing I didn't expect the first day A wealthy businessperson passed by Look at him teach seriously Lost 10 taels of silver as a thank you gift Guo Jing takes it Silver's eyes stared like Wang Xiaohu in Dragon and Tiger Gate See a beautiful woman I thought this was too fast I got rich without thinking about it. He ran back to find Zhou Botong Zhou Botong laughed out loud, did you see it? You are not torn The money comes by itself You always think money is bad. Of course he ignores you Action is faster than thought Do it first The mentality naturally changes Guo Jing now enlightened He started calling me every day He also reached out to help the townspeople fix roofs and move things As a result, the shadow was like the spirit ring in Douluo Continent upgraded Brushed import bag He finally understood what Huang Rong said. Act first and think later. It's a miracle Sikasi's bigger reversal One day he saved a businessperson in distress The businessperson is grateful Brought him a box of gold Guo Jing holds the gold So much money exploded in my heart again Will it go bad if I take it? He ran to find Yaoshi Huang Yaoshi Huang sneered at a silly boy Money is a tool Not the master You use it to save people It's good stuff You use it to hurt people It's the bad guy. What are you afraid of? Guo Jing slapped his forehead Instant enlightenment Decided to use the money to build bridges and roads Paid off the taxes on Peach Blossom Island The island is preserved He also became a good Samaritan in the town Act 4: The Truth and Unsolved Mysteries of Money Story ends here Guo Jing finally understood his ambivalence about money Love him and feel that he is the mother of all evil That's what makes him poor He used to think money was dirty. You shouldn't get paid for doing good deeds. As a result, I can't even eat Think differently. Make love first Money comes naturally It's not like the number 10 rules the world in a perfect world It's as simple as getting stronger Guo Jing smiled and said to Huang Rong, Rong'er. I'm finally not afraid of money He's kind of cute. Huang Rong covered her mouth and snickered. I told you earlier. You wooden head Finally got the hang of it Brothers and sisters Did this story wake you up? Money is not a monster Is how you see him in your heart What he did to you You always think he's bad He will stay away from you You consider him a friend He sticks to you TT Hikashi It's not that easy to change your mind, is it? Just like Guo Jing From fear of money to love money Took some effort Act first, think later. But it's like playing a game Close first and then think strategy Wealth comes knocking naturally Speaking of which, I have to sell it And you know what? Some people are poor not because they can't make money But there is a bigger bug in my heart In the next episode, let's talk about the God of Wealth and the little monster in our hearts There is also a super shocking Easter egg waiting for you. That's it for today Guo Jing's story tells us The money is right, it's your idea that's wrong Brothers and sisters Do you think it is very 666? Hello old iron Welcome to my channel I am Nan Qianshui You guys ready? What we're going to talk about today is a bit exciting Right or wrong Sounds like serious, right? But I promise. It's definitely the easiest way to tell you Guaranteed to make you laugh and burn your brains Start by dropping a bomb Do you think there is anything truly wrong with the world? Is everything right or wrong? You made it up. Hey, don't roll your eyes That's a serious question. Let's find out slowly Today's content has 4 major breaking points From maze adventure to life choices Each paragraph has a reversal Guaranteed to keep you going like a drama The point is to bury a super suspense at the end After reading it, I will definitely exclaim wow This is amazing Are you ready? Let's go straight into the maze Right or wrong, it's fate The story begins with a guy named Ah Cheng Ah Cheng is 27 years old Taipei people She looks a bit like Saitama's bald head in One Punch Superman But not that strong I usually work in a coffee shop The goal of life is Save up to buy a PS5. And he came home from work one day. I found a strange letter in the mailbox It says Ah Chen. Do you really know what is right and wrong? Come to the maze challenge A hand-drawn map was also attached Point to a mysterious corner of Yangming Mountain What the hell is Chen thinking? Scams are like that these days But he's idle. He's idle. Qian Cui put on her backpack and rushed to have a look. Arrived at the location Sure enough, there is a maze entrance At the door stood a weirdo in a Taoist robe Self-proclaimed Labyrinth Keeper It looks a bit like the Nine Sword Immortal in the Legend of Immortal Sword and Fairy Smile As soon as the guardian saw Ah Cheng, he said black boy Every path in this maze is a choice Go in and prove you know what's right and wrong Ah Cheng was confused about what was right or wrong No, it's simple Stealing is wrong Saving lives is right It's a challenge The guardian laughed too tender Right or wrong this thing It's more complicated than Yifan's cultivation in the sky It's not as black and white as you think. Acheng does not believe in evil Bite the bullet and walk into the maze The first road looks super safe There are road signs that say the right way This is not the way to go, he thought. I just stepped in The floor suddenly collapsed He fell into a mud puddle covered in stinky mud Guardian floats over Cool, say you just chose It's the right path for everyone But for you Obviously a pit Ah Cheng got up What do you mean by pissed off? Right or wrong, isn't it universal? The guardian squinted wrong Right and wrong are not rules that fall from the sky It's a label you put on yourself Little story time this reminds me of Journey to the West When Monkey Sun Wukong was crushed under Wuzhi Mountain Tang Seng felt that it was right to save him But Heaven thinks he's a big trouble It should be the viewer. Isn't this right and wrong just to see whose position it is? Ah Cheng finished listening My head buzzed so Nothing is inherently wrong It's all about how I see it Right and wrong in the eyes of others Who wrote the script of your life? Ah Cheng wiped up the mud and continued to walk forward Come to the second section of the labyrinth There's a huge screen Start playing the essence of his life When I was a child, my mother said that it was right to be first in the exam He stayed up late reading When I was in college, my friends said it was right to go to a big company He betrayed his life and threw his resume Now my colleague says it's right to work overtime to make money. He stayed up until midnight every day Ah Cheng watched Suddenly something feels wrong And so forth. Why has my life been run by other people's standards? The guardian appears again The laughing thief deserves a beating Got it? You accept that the right and wrong are pushed to you by others. What about your voice? Ah Cheng was stunned Yeah he never asked himself What is true? The Guardian points to three forks in the road. Don't let others choose based on your intuition this time Ah Cheng closes his eyes Just picked the middle one As a result, I walked He found a small wooden box There's a super fragrant latte in it Ah Chengle is broken This is too cool Guardian nods yes It's your choice. Doesn't it feel different? This is like Xiao Yan in the sky The family despised him He never left. The right path in the eyes of others Just rely on yourself to make a piece of the sky Right or wrong, it's not a script given by someone else It's your story. Acheng drinking a latte Warm heart It feels so good to listen to myself canvas of identity Your choices determine who you are There is a large mirror in the third section of the maze Acheng walked over and took a look The face inside is full of fatigue Wearing a coffee shop uniform Mop in hand Guardian says This is what you look like now. It's all what you chose to draw in the past Ah Cheng's heart sank He has really stabilized his life He is as busy as a dog every day. Where is the happiness? The Guardian hands him a magic pen to draw with Create the self you want Ah Cheng hesitated for a moment Then I drew a picture on the mirror wearing casual clothes Drinking coffee on the balcony And here's the magic. The image in the mirror has changed He looks relaxed and happy. Ah Cheng exclaimed what kind of black technology is this? The Guardian laughs and says it's not technology It's your decisions that paint the new you There is a girl named Xiaomei in Taiwan Originally an accountant Working overtime every day until it collapses Then she quit Opened a handmade cake shop Friends say she's crazy But she stood by her choice The store is so popular now I also went to Kangxi Identity It's what you drew stroke by stroke Ah Cheng touched his chin so My choices can really change Who am I purely adventurous I don't know But I still have to choose The last level of the maze is an empty room Just a note Write make your final choice Ah Cheng was dumbfounded what to choose No clue The guardian floats over and it's pure creation In the absence of standards You have to decide for yourself Ah Cheng is in a hurry, it's too difficult What if you choose the wrong one? The guardian is calm and there is nothing wrong with it. Only your way Ah Chen thought for a long time Finally wrote on the note that I was resigning Open your own coffee shop Live the life I want The labyrinth disappeared in an instant He found himself standing in front of his house I still have the note in my hand The guardian patted him on the shoulder to congratulate I chose the wrong path in I don't know This is freedom. Tell a joke. Ah Cheng asked if I would become poor if I chose the wrong one. The guardian laughs, it doesn't matter if you are poor or not What matters is whether you dare to gamble This sentence made Ah Cheng understand There's no right or wrong choice. Only dare to bear the result Girls right or wrong is just a game The next challenge is even more exciting Ah Cheng walks out of the maze I feel a lot more relaxed He got it. Right or wrong is not iron Law is the definition you give yourself Like in a perfect world From a little waste to a life-defying change It's all up to you to choose your own path Sikasi new trouble is coming again He just got home and received an anonymous note You got it right. You got it wrong. But do you know who you are? Ah Cheng was stunned What are you doing here again? Hey, let's put this question to rest Wait, talk about the self-awareness shit Do you think Ah Cheng will be full of bags again this time? Don't worry, it will be more brain-burning and hilarious next time. I promise you will be so high Did today's content open your mind? Tell me what you think The fantasy of self-awareness Acheng's Inner Adventure Hello old iron Today we will continue to follow Ah Cheng This 27-year-old Taipei coffee shop worker Enter a mind-blowing adventure about self-awareness Last time he figured out right and wrong from the maze As soon as I got home, I received a mysterious note It says you got it right or wrong. But do you know who you are? The problem is like a bomb Fried Ah Cheng with question marks Today's story is guaranteed to be full of jokes Philosophy Loaded A little Taiwanese There's a huge suspense waiting for you at the end Are you ready? Let's go straight to the mystery note challenge Who am I? Since Ah Cheng stared at that note He wondered who I was. Tell me about it. I'm Ah Cheng Ordinary people who love playing electric games and occasionally are in a daze But then he had a thought. This problem doesn't seem that simple I always feel like the protagonist in a certain anime It's a world problem. So he decided not to run away Put on your coat and get ready to go out to find answers Just then The doorbell rang. Open the door Here comes a weirdo Wearing a super trendy leather jacket Wearing sunglasses Self-described mentor It looks a bit like Liu Chuanfeng of SLAM DUNK Words are like silver mulberry of silver soul Mouth full of trains Yo boy Are you ready for some self-exploration? The mentor is familiar with it as soon as he opens his mouth Ah Cheng looked confused Self-Adventure The thief who laughs at the mentor deserves a beating Yeah, no maze this time Let's go straight to your inner world Go to the self-tribute on Yangming Mountain to see Ah Cheng was dubious When curiosity wins out Still followed the shock of self-tribute You think you are not you To Yangmingshan The teacher brings Ah Cheng to a huge mirror Mirror sparkling It's like a portal in a game The instructor said This mirror can reflect the depths of your heart Dare to see Ah Cheng nodded Stand in front of the mirror As a result, it appeared in the mirror Not the bald wage earner he is now But a man wearing a superman cape Child with PS5 controller in hand Ah Cheng is dumbfounded I am a child at heart The instructor smiled and explained That's right, you still love to play Little boy full of dreams But in reality, you are crushed by life and forget your original intention Ah Cheng was stunned He dreamed of being a game designer as a child As a result, when I grew up, I ended up serving plates in coffee shops Dreams have long been buried by reality The teacher went on to talk about the first step in self-awareness It's about recognizing that you are not who you are in the eyes of others It's who you are. Think about it. It's like a cartoon character. He used to be an inconspicuous little person But there is a potential hidden in the heart Ah Cheng looked at himself in the mirror My heart suddenly warms I still have dreams Did not give up the challenge of the inner labyrinth Face your fears Teacher clapping hands The mirror suddenly cracked open Become a portal Come on in Facing your inner labyrinth Ah Cheng bit the bullet and walked in It's pitch black inside Only a little light in the distance He walked carefully Suddenly I heard a voice Ah Cheng You will always be a Losers give up He was startled Take a closer look The professor who laughed at him in college Ah Cheng's heart beat faster Isn't that the fear in his heart? The instructor's voice came from above This is your shadow Only face Only then can he find his true self Ah Cheng takes a deep breath Take the courage to shout to the phantom that you are right I have failed. But I'm still working on it. Exit The professor has disappeared It's replaced by a door. He pushed open the door I saw a little boy crying It was my childhood self Ah Cheng walked over Pick up the little boy Say it's okay I'll take care of you. And in that moment, he felt his wounds begin to heal. There is a girl in Taiwan Being told that you are not good enough I have low self-esteem when I grow up Later, she learned to make peace with her inner self Now a super confident speaker Ah Cheng also had a similar insight Facing the Fear To move forward The ultimate test of self-awareness: who do you want to be? The last level of the maze It's an empty room. There is a glowing sphere in the middle. They said it was your self-core. Touch it and you can decide your future self Ah Cheng reached out and touched it A bunch of images flashed through my mind He runs coffee shops, designs games, travels the world. Each was the future he had dreamed of The instructor asked which one to choose. Ah Cheng hesitated Opening a coffee shop is safe but boring Designing games is risky but exciting Traveling the world is free but not practical He suddenly remembered the lesson of the last maze There is no wrong choice Only your way So he closes his eyes. Intuitively chose to design the game Instantly the sphere emits a strong light Ah Cheng is brought back to reality The next challenge for girls is waiting for you Ah Cheng wakes up I found myself lying on my sofa Holding a note in his hand It says congratulations. Find yourself But self-awareness is a never-ending adventure He smiled. I feel that the whole person is much more relaxed The Sikasi doorbell is ringing again Open the door The same self-mentor. Are you ready for the next challenge with a smile? Hey, that's it for today. Next time we will continue to burn our brains and laugh Do you think Ah Cheng will be full of bags again this time? Tell me what you think Quartet summary hey Old irons Today's soul adventure was amazing Right? Let's rush into the cosmic drama together From a rhapsody of the soul to the ultimate relationship adventure To the carnival of goals and practices There is also the spiritual battlefield of disease and health The God of Money Myth The right and wrong challenges that have been explored in the labyrinth Every scene is as exciting and brain-burning as the Lantern Festival suppose Your soul is like Li Xiaoyao in the Legend of Immortals and Swords Born from the chaos of Tai Chi Embark on a cosmic adventure In the beginning You explore your origins in a rhapsody of the soul I found that you and I are the protagonists of the universe drama Then the ultimate relationship adventure Let you learn to expose your true self in martial arts dramas Find the real chessboard Then the carnival of goals and practices Take you through the novice village Running towards the evolution of the soul On the battlefield of disease and health You find the little monster of the mind It's the person behind the pain Money You went from being afraid of money to hugging him like Guo Jing Counterattack and become a wealth expert Finally, a preliminary study of the maze will let you understand Right or wrong is just a label you give yourself Every choice is painting your future self Just like Li Xiaoyao From an ignorant teenager to a saving hero Your soul is also in these six great adventures Find your own legend Now I want you to think about that. The problems posed by these six outlines These not only allow you to reminisce about today's content Can still set you on fire Discuss the rhapsody of a passionate soul From Tai Chi to you and me Cosmic drama begins Do you believe Is our soul part of the cosmic drama? This is the vision. Will it change your perspective on life? 2 The Ultimate Relationship Adventure Our fully upgraded version What is the most challenging relationship you have ever experienced? What truths have you learned about yourself? A carnival party of three goals and spiritual practice The Advanced Challenge of the Soul How do you celebrate your growth milestones? What's the next goal to lift the soul? 4 Sickness and the battlefield of a healthy mind Have you ever had any health problems? I think it has something to do with your mindset. How did you come back? 5 The Myth of the God of Money and Ah Cai's Counterattack What myths have you broken about money? How can these experiences change your life? 6 Labyrinth is right or wrong You think right or wrong is absolute It depends on the context. How would you define yourself? Next time we will continue to explore Part of the Muse dialogue trilogy Get ready. Welcome to more mind-blowing and hilarious soul adventures This cosmic drama is not over yet More reversals and secrets await us to uncover together Remember to subscribe to the channel Turn on the little bell Don't miss it. The journey of the soul never stops Every day is a new adventure Looking forward to seeing you next time. Into this cosmic orgy I am Nan Qianshui I wish you all a happy life. Soul freedom Lao Tie, thank you for your company and support today. If you think the content of this episode is terrifying and informative Don't forget to like and subscribe to the comments. Let me know your thoughts and questions Your every interaction It's a huge motivation for me to continue to create Let me know in the message area. Which part did you like best? Or you can compare these 6 outlines Do you have any personal stories you would like to share? Let's go together. Let's make this soul adventure more lively
