Timestamp: 2026-05-03T21:55:34.763796
Title: ₕₐₘₚₜₒₙ - Entire 1-hour Quant Finance workshop by a Two-Sigma AI Engineer 2050581301317529600
URL: https://x.com/hamptonism/status/2050751405560865250?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 1:00:15

Description:
这是一份针对 Two Sigma 关于“深度学习在量化金融序列处理中的应用”讲座内容的深度解析与批判性回顾。

---

### **PART 1. 作者论点地图 (Author's Map)**

**1. 核心论题 (Core Thesis)**
深度学习（尤其是针对序列设计的架构，如 RNN、GRU、LSTM 及 Transformer）是处理金融市场复杂序列数据的核心工具，能够系统性地提升量化投资流程（从特征提取到 Alpha 建模再到交易执行）的预测精度与效率。

**2. 证据基础 (Evidentiary Base)**
*   **行业实践：** Two Sigma 的规模（580亿美元资产、1600名员工、3亿股/日交易量）作为方法论有效的背书。
*   **技术演进：** 从 1958 年的感知机到现代的门控网络（GRU/LSTM）和注意力机制（Attention）的技术演化逻辑。
*   **跨领域类比：** 深度学习在自然语言处理（NLP）、语音识别和计算机视觉（CV）中的成功，证明了其处理序列数据的潜力。
*   **数据规模：** 每年 20PB 的新增数据和 10,000 个数据源，支撑了深度模型对高容量数据的需求。

**3. 逻辑授权 (Logical Warrant)**
金融市场本质上是多维、非线性的序列数据集合。既然深度学习在处理非结构化序列（文本、视频）方面表现出超越传统统计学的性能，那么通过“展开（Unrolling）”和“门控机制（Gating）”捕获时间依赖性，理应能捕捉到金融市场中的非线性 Alpha。

**4. 宣称范围 (Stated Scope)**
*   **适用领域：** 情感分析（文本）、Alpha 预测（价格序列）、投资组合优化、交易执行（强化学习）。
*   **限制条件：** 强调“非情感化”决策，依赖大规模计算资源（GPU/TPU）和高质量模拟器。

**5. 隐含对手 (Implicit Opponent)**
*   **传统金融理论：** 认为市场完全有效、无法预测的观点。
*   **简单线性模型：** 仅依赖均值回归或动量等线性假设的传统量化方法。
*   **人类直觉：** 容易受情绪波动影响的传统交易员。

**6. 预期收效 (Intended Takeaway)**
听众应认识到量化金融已演变为一场“数据科学竞赛”，深度学习不再是可选项，而是处理大规模金融序列、获取微弱竞争优势（Edge）的必然选择。

---

### **PART 2. 尖锐且公正的评述 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair REVIEW)**

**1. 强力辩护 (Steelman)**
该论证最强之处在于将金融预测准确地定位为“极低信噪比下的序列推断”。在传统模型失效的非线性边界，深度学习提供的复杂表征能力是挖掘微弱信号的唯一手段。Two Sigma 的成功证明了，当数据规模和计算能力达到临界点时，工程上的暴力美学可以转化为金融上的超额收益。

**2. 最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)**
> “我们的工作是预测 T+1 时刻的价格……就像情感分类或机器翻译一样。”

**批判：** 这是一个危险的类比。语言的底层逻辑（语法、语义）是相对稳定的，而金融市场的底层逻辑（博弈对手的策略）是**非平稳且具有对抗性**的。如果市场参与者都使用相似的深度学习模型，预测信号会迅速消亡。模型对历史序列的拟合越深，对未来“机制转移（Regime Shift）”的抵抗力可能越弱。

**3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)**
作者大量引用了 CV 和 NLP 的成功，但回避了金融数据与这些领域的根本区别：**信噪比（SNR）**。在 CV 中，猫的照片永远是猫；在金融中，99% 的波动可能是纯随机噪音。讲座中展示的“买入回调（Buy the Dip）”示意图过于理想化，忽略了回撤风险和过拟合（Overfitting）在实际深度学习模型中的灾难性影响。

**4. 隐藏前提 (Hidden Premises)**
论证依赖于一个未经证实的假设：**“更多的数据 + 更深的网络 = 更持久的 Alpha”**。事实上，金融数据存在严重的“维数灾难”，增加非结构化数据（如社交媒体情绪）往往引入了更多噪音而非信号。

**5. 盲点视角 (The Blind Side)**
*   **执行成本与延迟：** 复杂的 Transformer 或深度强化学习模型推理时间长，在瞬息万变的高频博弈中，模型精度提升带来的收益可能被执行延迟抵消。
*   **可解释性危机：** 讲座中提到的“黑盒”问题在监管日益严格的金融领域是致命的。当模型在黑天鹅事件中发生崩溃时，缺乏解释性的深度学习模型无法提供及时的风险干预依据。

**6. 致命一问 (One Hit Kill)**
如果深度学习模型在金融序列上的预测准确率仅比 50% 略高（如作者在问答中所述），那么如何证明这种微弱的提升来自于模型对“序列逻辑”的理解，而不是在大规模回测中对特定噪声片段的偶然捕捉？

**7. 如何定论 (What Would Settle It)**
进行一项严格的“样本外（Out-of-sample）”对比实验：在市场发生剧烈波动（如 2020 年 3 月）时，对比未经人工干预的深度学习序列模型与基于简单逻辑的鲁棒统计模型，看谁的夏普比率（Sharpe Ratio）衰减更慢。

---

### **PART 3. 架构概念图 (Mermaid Diagram)**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    subgraph SG_Core["💎 核心目标: 序列中的 Alpha 提取"]
        Core["<b>量化金融投资管线</b><br/>通过深度学习处理序列决策"]
        style Core fill:#FFD700,stroke:#DAA520,stroke-width:3px,color:#333,font-weight:bold
    end

    subgraph SG_Pipeline["🛠️ 量化投资生命周期"]
        P1["<b>1. 特征提取</b><br/>技术/基本面/情绪/替代数据"]
        P2["<b>2. Alpha 建模</b><br/>预测未来价格走势"]
        P3["<b>3. 组合优化</b><br/>风险控制与资产配置"]
        P4["<b>4. 交易执行</b><br/>最小化市场冲击"]
        
        P1 --> P2 --> P3 --> P4
        style P1 fill:#E1F5FE,stroke:#01579B,color:#01579B
        style P2 fill:#E1F5FE,stroke:#01579B,color:#01579B
        style P3 fill:#E1F5FE,stroke:#01579B,color:#01579B
        style P4 fill:#E1F5FE,stroke:#01579B,color:#01579B
    end

    subgraph SG_Models["🧠 深度学习演进 (针对序列)"]
        direction TB
        M1["<b>基础 MLP</b><br/>截断历史, 固定输入"]
        M2["<b>RNN (递归神经网络)</b><br/>通过隐藏状态建立'记忆'"]
        M3["<b>门控网络 (GRU/LSTM)</b><br/>解决梯度消失, 长期依赖"]
        M4["<b>Transformer/Attention</b><br/>并行处理, 聚焦关键序列点"]
        M5["<b>强化学习 (RL)</b><br/>端到端决策, 应对市场反馈"]
        
        M1 --> M2 --> M3 --> M4
        M4 -.-> M5
        style M1 fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#7B1FA2,color:#4A148C
        style M2 fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#7B1FA2,color:#4A148C
        style M3 fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#7B1FA2,color:#4A148C
        style M4 fill:#CE93D8,stroke:#7B1FA2,stroke-width:2px,color:#4A148C
        style M5 fill:#CE93D8,stroke:#7B1FA2,stroke-width:2px,color:#4A148C
    end

    subgraph SG_Review["⚔️ 批判性审视 (Hostile Review)"]
        direction TB
        R1["<b>数据非平稳性陷阱</b><br/>历史不代表未来, 机制常转移"]
        R2["<b>极低信噪比 (SNR)</b><br/>深度模型极易拟合随机噪音"]
        R3["<b>可解释性缺失</b><br/>黑盒模型在极端风险下不可控"]
        R4["<b>对抗性博弈</b><br/>Alpha 随深度学习普及而快速衰减"]
        
        style R1 fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#C62828,color:#B71C1C
        style R2 fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#C62828,color:#B71C1C
        style R3 fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#C62828,color:#B71C1C
        style R4 fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#C62828,color:#B71C1C
    end

    %% 连接逻辑
    P2 -- "使用模型" --> M3
    P4 -- "使用模型" --> M5
    M4 -- "面临挑战" --> R1
    M5 -- "面临挑战" --> R3
    Core --> SG_Pipeline
    SG_Models -- "支撑" --> Core

    %% 背景样式
    style SG_Core fill:#FFF9C4,stroke:#FBC02D,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Pipeline fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#1976D2,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Models fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#8E24AA,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Review fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#D32F2F,stroke-width:3px
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
All right. Let's see. So I want to go over the poll for a second that you've hopefully had a chance to get to. And what I see is that people have a wide diversity of backgrounds in. I don't see it yet. But I'm judging that people have a wide diversity of backgrounds that are here in deep learning. Some of you are highly experienced. Some of you have taken a class. Some of you have heard the term, but don't really know what it is. And so I hope that this lecture will, or talk will bring to you some ideas at every level about how deep learning can be applied and quantitative finance. So, and since two seconds is highly regulated, in a highly regulated industry, just read this very quickly. Thank you. Okay, about two sigma. Two Sigma is a financial sciences company. It was founded 20 years ago. By financial sciences, we mean that it's a company that applies the scientific methods to finance. That is, it brings data, inquiry, experimentation, hypothesis, drawing conclusions and applying those conclusions. We operate in a number of different investments. The original business founded 20 years ago was a quantitative hedge fund, And that has expanded out into other businesses that are closely, or not even closely, but related in the financial sector. So securities is a broker-dealer business, doing things like closed sale market-making. We also have parts of the business that are concerned with private investment in venture capital, which everybody probably knows about, private equity, or real estate. And then other areas are insurance and investor solutions. So investor solutions, for example, take some of the tools that we build internally and turns them over to institutional or professional investors through a platform called Venn and allows them to have access to some of the same methods that we use for analyzing portfolios and investments. Two Sigma itself is, of course, more than just the businesses that we do, it's really about the people. And there are 1,600 people at work at 2 Sigma, spread out mostly in headquarters, which is in New York City, but also in Houston and London, Hong Kong, Shanghai, and Tokyo. The people working at 2 Sigma, 600 of us have advanced degrees, about 200 or PhDs, or even more than 200 PhDs. Interestingly, you'd expect the finance company to be comprised largely of people with backgrounds finance, but in fact, 60% of us don't have degrees in finance. My background's in computer vision, and I've only learning about finance really on the job rather than coming here beforehand. And most of us work in research and development. A lot of us are engineers, a lot of us are coming from basic sciences and mathematics. They're working in the R&D side of the company. All right, so that's who we are now about the main topic here at hand why you're here. So what I want to talk about is deep learning for sequences. So let's just remember what a sequence is a sequence is an order list of elements. So in this case, the sequence of length and with end different elements in it, the elements will depend upon the particular application. So if we're talking about sequences that are text, we're talking about sequences of words, words of the elements or characters, if it's written text. If we're talking about speech, the sequence is an audio signal, a function of time, perhaps sampled, 3000 samples per second. Music might be higher fidelity as a sampling, perhaps up at 10, even 20,000, 40,000 samples per second. Video is a sequence of images, so one image following the other during the duration of that video of interest. But there's lots of other things that are sequences. So when you go on to your favorite e-commerce site and you start searching around there for products, there's a sequence of product detail pages that you visit on that e-commerce site. So that's a sequence that might be of interest for processing. And finally for our world and finance, it might be, say, stock prices. Now, sequence processing tasks are one that takes sequences as input and produce sequences as output. Those sequences might be the same length, or they might be different lengths. And I'll show you some examples of this. And deep learning has had a profound impact on all of these examples, really accelerating in the last decade, the accuracy with which tasks can be performed. So let's take a really simple one. Well, not really simple, but simple and for words of its output. So it was referred to as sentiment classification. Given, say, a text sequence is the person really positive in this sequence, or are they negative? How are they feeling? Just binary, up thumbs up, thumbs down, based on it. So expression might be, Jenny loved it. Their bond me is sick. Now, is that a positive review or a negative review of a restaurant? My mother might say, it's sick now not so good, but anybody probably in this podcast says, nah, it's a really good review. It's a restaurant to go to. All right, video activity recognition. That might be given a home video classified as a birthday party, sports, swimming, and so on. Video is input, single output, it's not even a degenerate sequence, if you will, with just a classification score. But there are other sides of this, which might go the other way. A single input producing a sequence. And so a common thing on websites is having a caption associated with an image, especially for the visually impaired who can't see it. And so given an image, you might want to auto generate a caption for that image. Inputs an image, length one, sequence output is, as long as that caption has to be. Recommendations, they generally are producing a single output, but given a long sequence of observations, which web pages you visited. Machine translation now gets interesting. You take in one language, English, and you want to translate that to French. You have two expressions and two languages, the number of words are going to be different, different lengths. Speech recognition takes an audio, a signal that is perhaps sampled that a few thousand samples per second and then produces is an output which is a sequence of words, vastly different sizes of the sequences. And in our world, we're often interested in prediction. That is, how do we predict, let's say, the value of a stock, what it's going to be tomorrow. It's going to go up, or it's going to go down. And that will take a sequence in the past history and produce one output for tomorrow. But over all time, it goes from a sequence of one length to a sequence of another length. Alright, now let's talk about that we talked about mentioned the stock market, how do you make money in the stock market? Well, old adage, right? Bilo and sell high. Buy it a month ago at here, I don't know, $31.24 and sell it at like $3.80 and make 67 cents. All right, that's the old adage. And now we say buy the dip, right? And if you buy the dip and you do it really well, Well, maybe you'll make even more money than sort of the buy high low and sell high predicted both sides of this well and you know in this case make $2.74. And you know what look at that plot there there's a lot of wiggles in there and if you add up all those wiggles and you bought every little dip that every scale. Well, maybe there's more than even 274 to make on on this sequence. All right, what are other ways you hear from people about having to make money in the stock market? Well, one thing they say is, don't put all your eggs in one basket. And maybe that's way not to make money, but rather have not to lose money, but that's really about diversifying your portfolio. So that's another thing you wanna think about in finance. All right, another thing, don't time the market. Now that's an interesting one. You hear that expression, but of course that's the one's counter to by low and sell high and buy the dip. So we have a little contradiction and common wisdom in this one. And then finally, don't allow emotions to cloud your decision making. And in quantitative finance, we take that very, very literally. We build algorithms, emotionless algorithms that will make the decisions. And indeed, they're making decisions like trying to predict how to buy the dip or buy low and sell high. And we'll be careful about not putting all our eggs in one basket. And that's how we'll hopefully do well in our business. All right, so in a quantitative finance, this is a typical quantitative investment pipeline what you're seeing here. And you can find this if you grab a textbook, you'll see like, or a book like this one, you'll find something very similar to this almost everywhere, the pipeline of investment strategy. On the right-hand side, that's where the actions happening. That's the markets. That's where we're gonna buy or sell instruments. It could be futures, it could be commodities, it could be equities, it could be options. There's a market on the other side. In the end, we're buying and selling in those markets. Now, how to make a decision? How much should you buy? How much should you sell? When should you buy? When should you sell? Well, that's all driven by data on coming in here on the left-hand side. And of course, this whole pipeline is coming up with that buy and sell order decisions. And so start with extracting features then a process that gets referred to as alpha modeling that is forecasting or predicting how say a stock price will go deciding the allocation of the portfolio and then actually deciding on the buy and sell orders. Let's look at each of these in turn. We'll see that some of these are sequential decision making processes. So alpha modeling. Alpha modeling is a process of given information about a financial instrument, predict at time T if the price is gonna be higher or lower at some future time point. So we're given this time sequence and what's it gonna be? And one way to do this, very simple way to do this is take the average over a past period of time, maybe not all time, but some recent history, compute the average and expect that the average will be that that average is what it will be in the future and make a buy or sell decision based on this idea, the idea that the stock will revert to the mean and whether and this is how it played out and that's referred to as a mean reversion model. Well, no deep learning here. This is just a very simple model for prediction. Now, it's called a zero-thorougher model. Another possibility is here's another sequence and we're just gonna, you know, in the future, maybe two different time horizons, what the price is gonna be. And what we can do is we can fit a curve to that or a line and predict forward using that linear extrapolation what the price is gonna be. And how well did we do? in the mean reversion model for that plate, that situation, we underestimated. Here, there's a slight overestimate of where we think things are gonna go into go. And that second one is referred to as a momentum model. That's an example of a non-learning based alpha model. All right, so I started the middle because that's clearly got a sequence in it and might be an opportunity to apply a sequence processing task. To mention feature extraction, what goes into the alpha model. Examples I gave used price, the previous stock prices. And those are generally referred to the price and what you can measure about the market itself are referred to as technical features. This could be price, it could be the volume, how much is being traded. There's actually a spread when you go to buy something, it's going to be higher than when you want to sell it. So that's referred to as the bid-esque spread. These are features you measure directly from the market. Doesn't matter what instrument it is, as a matter whether it's Apple or Google or another company of interest. It's about, well, it's, you look at the prices. Now, you could actually look at the business itself and see how it's doing. Look at its annual report, look at the sales, use information publicly available information to understand how the business is doing and make decisions based on that. It could be directly purported by the company or maybe inferred, you know, we start hearing about blockages on at ports of entry ports right now. And so maybe it's not a good time to be a toy manufacturer. So that would be more fundamental information. And then there's information that might affect the stock price about what's going on in the media. How are people feeling about it? What is the sentiment towards that particular stock? And you could be looking at the news, you could look at social media, you could look at analyst comments. All of these are indicated, each has a sentiment associated with it. Those can be combined together to make a forecast about how the stock price is going to move. And most of that information comes in very unstructured data, comes in in Bloomberg television. It could be coming in off of your favorite social network of choice and coming in as plain text and to be interpreted towards sentiment. And then there's non-traditional sources of information. If there's a lot of cars in a parking lot at Christmas time, maybe that retailer is doing really well. If there's container ships backed up into a harbor, maybe something that's based on exports is not gonna do so well and so on. So there's a source of information that might feed into an alpha model. Next up is portfolio optimization. So the alpha model has made a prediction about what we think each of the stocks would do. This is a listing hypothetical from six of 30 equities in the Dow Jones industrial average. And you know, imagine this is one day and it's looking like PNG is gonna be doing really well, sales force, not so good. So, you know, what should we do? Should we go all in with this forecast into Procter and Gamble and buy it? And the issues that we'd really want to consider, consider quantitatively is, well, how much do we already hold of each of these stocks? Maybe we already got a ton of TNG and really shouldn't buy more of it. Are we actually confident in these forecasts? Do we know that, you know, are we feeling that you've got the data to know how Chevron is doing? How volatile the price has been? Are they been pretty stable? Are they going up and down a lot? How diversified should we be? Should we really put all our eggs in one basket or should we spread it out? If we're spreading it out, what does it mean to be spread out? How would make that decision about how spread out today? And then finally, we already own something and buying it isn't free, it's not a complete exchange. There's a cost associate with making a trade. How do we handle that? Well, all of these issues can be expressed together as a large scale optimization problem. Their optimization is over all the possible ways you could spend your money or invest your money. And it's generally handled through optimization. The final piece of this pipeline is execution. And this is where we go to the market and actually buy and sell stocks to achieve the portfolio that the portfolio optimization has suggested that we do. Now, it's important to note, when the optimization happened, there was some price determined, but share prices are not fixed. It's not like they're advertising a store and you're guaranteed to go into the store and get it for the price that you want it for. Instead, it's governed by a market market forces market participants. So we're not passive observers and we go out to buy something. The price might change. It might go up, come in, wear in a fancy suit and a nice watch, then you might get charged a bit more. So it's a market and the more you try to buy, the price might move based on that. So decisions that has to be made in execution is, If we want to buy a lot or sell a lot, we should break it up into smaller orders and place them at different places. So in fact, there are not just one place where you can buy or sell a stock just because it's listed on New York Stock Exchange, there are other exchanges that sell and buy the same equities. When should the orders be placed? If you place them all at once, it's almost the same thing as placing one very large order. Maybe they should be spread out uniformly over time. maybe we should be more systematic about it and responsive. What type of order should be placed? There are more complex orders than just saying buy it now or sell it now. There are things like limit orders and stop orders and sell them. Finally, we'd like to have a model of what the impact of our actions is going to be to help us with our optimization and making decisions about buying and selling. And this referred to as a market impact model. model. Okay, so this is the pipeline and this is the way, you know, quantitative finance tends to break up the process of making buying and selling decisions. So each of not all of these, but these three blocks all have aspects of sequential decision making in them feature extraction again might be just at the level of text looking and trying to estimate or determine sentiment. Alpha modeling takes in a history of past features. Could be sentiment, could be technical features, could be fundamental features, and produces a forecast about how we'd expect some particular instrument to go. And then execution is dealing with the sequences of the actual buy-and-sell decisions that have to be made over time. So all these have sequential aspects to it, which means I want to turn my attention now to how deep learning can be used to solve some of these problems. I'm gonna sketch out deep learning what it is for those of you who don't have experience in it. And then see how to connect it up into at least the alpha modeling process. Again, I'll remind you if you have questions, please go to slido.com, enter the event name, two sigma presents, you're able to ask questions, you'll be able to post questions there, and then later on a panel will answer those questions. Okay, so let's move on to deep learning. learning. And deep learning is basically a type of neural network that's large. Deep network, neural networks are not new. They go back even before I was born. Frank Rosenblatt implemented the first neural network and analog perception on in 1958. So it goes back quite a ways. But the real heyday of deep learning has really happened in the last decade. what changed since 1958, besides computers getting a lot smaller. All right, so there are new network architectures. We'll see a version of Rosenblatt's perceptron in the next slide, but the new architecture is really built off of that. The other thing, of course, is massive amounts of training data. When he was training a perceptron, it was a very, very small amount of data. Algorithms have change to accommodate the new architectures to train more deeper and more complex networks in reasonably effective but highly computational methods or requirements. And finally we've now have massive parallel computation which is really needed to be able to effectively train this in in our lifetimes rather than using computers of old and even computers of not so long ago. All right, so Frank Rosenblatt's perceptron and the basis for most neural networks remains pretty similar and is illustrated here. So this is a single perceptron, and it's a node in a multilayered network. It basically takes in a set of inputs numbers, x1 through xd, computes a weighted sum of those numbers, and then passes it through a nonlinear function that's referred to as an activation function here G. So that could be expressed of the summation and equation down below, could be thought of as a dot product of the weights with the inputs. And there's another term that is referred to as the bias term that's an offset W0 that is an input. And we will generally not show that bias term in any of the subsequent slides, just to make the slides a little simpler. Now, when Rosenblatt created the perceptron, His activation function was simply a threshold is the weight of some greater than or less than a threshold. Now, that's whom went away and was replaced by a softer version of a threshold, the 10H or sigmoid function, and the quagions are shown here on the left. And if you stand back from a little bit of a distance, those functions look like thresholds. When they're less than a certain value, the value say of the sigmoid is zero, and when they're greater than a certain value, It's very close to one. But these are differentiable functions, which helps in our learning methods. The activation function has to a fair extent been replaced in the last decade with an alternative one called the rectified linear unit or relu or some sort of relatives or cousins of it. What does the relu do? Basically it says if the value of, going back to the previous slide, the value of the summation part is less than a threshold and it just outputs zero. And if it's greater than threshold, it outputs the value. And that's a standard activation function that's being used. And yeah, there are modifications of this where it's soft at the corner and that it has a slight slope for negative values called the Leaky Reloop that's in there. All right, so that's a single layer of the network. Now these get combined. And that was what Rosenblatt introduced but it was realized that we're very quickly there were limitations to a single node. And so a multi-layer perceptron or two-layer network shown here was introduced. Two-layer network has each of the circles is one of those perceptrons with its own activation function and own set of weights. And that can be represented as a pair of weight matrices, W1 and W2 associated with the first layer and another one associated with the second layer and then two activation functions. All right, and that allows us to build out to a larger network. Now, let's build an alpha modeling network from this, one that will predict this price, the stock, tomorrow, based on past measurements of it. And recall our alpha modeling, when we talk about mean reversion and momentum, we'll now use a neural network. So we're given a sequence of daily stock prices, P1 through PT for the last T days. And our job is to predict the T plus the one price. So we have our network that takes de-inputs and we want to produce a prediction. So to feed that in, we can directly feed the prices into a multi-layer network like shown here. We're gonna have to eliminate the old history because we only have de-inputs and if t is bigger than d, we're not able to handle all of the inputs. So we'll truncate everything up to time t. And we really only care about one output producing just the next price. So we'll call that, we'll have a single output instead. All right, now the network needs to be trained. What do we mean by training a network? We need to be able to evaluate that functions that we've seen before. We need to know the weights W. So how do we estimate W? Well, this is where training comes in. We need some examples. We need to look at, say, the previous history of how a particular stock had evolved over time. Let's look over the last 10 years and see how the next day related to the previous D days and set that up as a set of training data. So we have a pair of training features, X, and the price from tomorrow, PT plus one. So to do training, we'll feed the features in, that sequence of previous information into an untrained or partially trained network, and we'll get out a prediction or forecast of the price. Shown here is PT plus one hat. Likewise, we have in our training data what the price, what was tomorrow, given the training data. It's not tomorrow tomorrow, it's let's say in 1918, in January, over the past month, what was the previous prices and then what was tomorrow back then. And we'll compare our prediction p to the actual price through a function that is referred to as a loss function. It's a comparison function. It's one that's small if our prediction is perfect. It's zero if it's perfect. And it goes up when they're different. And there's different functions that you could use for a loss. This is part of the art and experience of training networks. But for this kind of problem, problem a typical loss is going to be simply take the difference between P hat and P and take its absolute value or take that absolute value and square it and that might be the loss function that we would use. So then that's for one pair of history plus future. Our training date is going to have many examples of that. As shown here we have M examples. So we'll add up M examples of of, from M examples, the loss function. And that's referred to as the total loss. So now our training is now turned into an optimization problem that says minimize the total loss relative to W, choose a value of W that minimizes the total loss over our training data. And it's as easily said, perhaps a bit harder to actually implement. And there's a collection of training techniques for doing this, Rosemlatt simply used a form of gradient descent on his one perceptron to do it. Sometimes the method used in between is referred to as backpropagation as a technique. And there are specific collection, or there's a collection of methods that has opened up that works effectively for networks as they get larger and larger. And the introduction of stochastic gradient descent in particular was a bit of a watershed in allowing large networks to be effectively trained. And there's a lot of other things that come into play that if you get into deep learning you'll know what those those things mean. So if you're really building an alpha model of course you're not just looking at one signal just the past history. You're taking all those features that we mentioned earlier and combining them together or at least a relevant subset of them that's going to be more powerful than just a single number as an input. And now we have instead of just one number each time, we have the price, the volume, the spread. Maybe we have fundamental information that's maybe coming in slower. It's not happening day-by-day. We're not getting a new quarterly report every day. Sentiment might be coming continuously, certainly the news groups are pretty active, chattering away, and so on. So we will have a variety of features that we can concatenate together at each time instant and use that for prediction. All right. The problem with this approach, however, is that using a fully connected network like this is that the number of weights that we're going to have to train can start becoming very large. In particular, if we're looking back in time, D steps, and we have many features, n, even in that first layer of the network, we're going to have d times n weights in it, and that number of weights can become large relative to our amount of training data. So that becomes a problem. We're not necessarily going to be able to train a network to fully take advantage of what's available here. So this is where another class of sequence processing networks comes into play called recurrent neural networks. So let me introduce recurrent neural networks by starting with the two layer network that we'd seen previously. I would kind of draw on these things as blocks. The first layer has a weight matrix WXH and activation function G. And then our next layer has a weight matrix WHY and another activation G2. So that's a two layer network. To turn this into a current network, we're going to make the input to this just one time step. And we're going to step through sequencing inputs. Let's say over the last 30 days, we'll have 30 inputs come in sequentially into the network. But we introduce this memory that takes the hidden layer after the hidden state, after the first layer, and feeds it back as part of the input, as to the input. And now the network is building state with each time instant. And that's referred to as a recurring network. One that has a sense of memory to it built into it and feeds that backwards. So how do we train a recurrent network like that? Well, we can again use the techniques that we had used for a feed-forward network like our multi-layer perceptron. We can use back propagation, but we have to do a trick to it. The reason we can't just use it directly, let's go back to this, this picture, is because we have the loop in there. The network no longer, we can no longer feedback information through that loop caused by the memory being present. So the trick is to unroll the network to say, well, it's not really going to respond to all the way back to the beginning of time. It's only be back to the start of the sequence, say 30 steps ago or D steps ago is drawn here. So we unroll the network in this fashion so that it goes back and there are D of these units going backward in time. And this alone begins to look just like a feed forward network. X1 goes through many layers, X2 comes in at the second layer, X3 comes in at the third layer, XD comes in at the second to last layer before it gets up to the loss. And by doing this unrolling, we turn what had a recurrence relation into in it, into one that is, one that is amenable to gradient techniques. Now, the trick here, though, that makes this thing tractable and not have the number of weights blow up is that the weights are shared between each of these elements. So, WHOH is in all of the, all of the layers. So we enroll the network so it looks like a feed forward network and all of the weights are shared. Now this is a deep network. The network we saw before in our earlier drawings were two layers. When we've done the unrolling, this network now has is has D layers going backwards from that X one X D over the time. So that's plus the extra one near the top. So there's D plus one layers in in this network. So it's deep, if it's 30 days, there's 31 layers deep into this network. Again, the weights are shared. Training these kind of networks can be difficult. And so there's been a number of issues identified. During the training process, the process of stochastic gradient descent means computing gradients. And those gradients sometimes become very large. And that's easy to handle. There's methods called solution gradient clipping can be used to handle that. Another issue is that the gradients may actually drop down to zero, and if you're doing a gradient descent optimization along the way, if they drop down to zero, you're not going to be able to make steps. So regularization is often a technique that helps alleviate this problem. But still, the information often doesn't propagate very far backwards down through all of those layers, and so the memory doesn't, even though the network might look at an early point in time, the networks don't seem to be very responsive to that. And so another class of networks got introduced called Gated Networks, and these Gated Networks, recurring networks, called GRU and LSTM, have an advantage that they actually allowed the information to propagate further back in time. So what's a Gated Network? Well, rather than just the waiting, the weighted sum, and the activation function. A gating network introduces a gate. This gate is not a digital gate, it's an analog gate. And the analog gate, basically, is like a spigot or a valve where the value of the gate terms how much of the information flows through. So you can think of it as just a linear function where two forms of the analog gates are shown here. And the one on the left, The input A is modulated or scaled by capital gamma to give us an output C. That's one form of a gated unit. Another one mixes two signals, mixes A and B together and gamma's number between zero and one. And so it's going to take a proportion of A and a proportion of B. And A and B don't need to be scalars. They could be vectors. They could be a vector of of numbers and the input gamuk is the length of those vectors a and b. So this is another building block. It's a differential building block. So it can be used in the similar optimization techniques that are used in multi-layer networks. So how do we build one of these networks? Well, the network, the current network I mentioned before is called an element network named after Jeff element who have been a professor at UCSD. There's another variation called the Jordan network, and Jordan was Ellen's postdoc, now I'll put this up Berkeley. Anyway, the Jordan network takes the feedback or memory not from the hidden layer, but from the top layer, which itself has advantages that I won't get into here. If we redraw that Jordan network and that two layer network in this fashion, so the second layer is pointing out to the right. And if we think about this back propagation through time, SI is the output, the state output of this unit and Si minus one is the state output from the previous time step. You imagine these things stacked up or arranged horizontally over time if we're doing training. All right, so this is just that same two layer network redrawing. Instead, we'll replace that top layer with a gated unit. There's no weights inside of that where the weights will come into play is controlling the gating signal how much of the input is allowed through and that's got a simple to a one layer weight matrix combined with an activation function usually a signal it was shown earlier. And that gating function combines the previous state S i minus one with a computed new state S i tilde shown here. And that gate that's shown in this, the gate is referred to as an update gate. It's gonna update the previous state with a potential new state and how much it's gonna combine the two together is determined by the gating weight. That's combined with another gate, Another analog gate in here, which has a function of resetting the state, bring the state back to say zero, at least for some of the values in there. And this network, all of the components of this are differentiable and therefore trainable by techniques like back propagation that we had mentioned earlier. This kind of network, the group, this simplified, is one that has a longer memory. It's one of two main recurrent gated networks. There's the grue and the older one actually is the LSTM, which stands for long short-term memory, the longer short-term memory. Let's not remembering years ago, but it's remembering maybe 30 steps ago fairly well. Anyway, the LSTM has more gates and more parameters and has been around longer. The grue is a newer gated recurrent network with fewer parameters and is often said to work better when the amount of training data is small, which should be good in updates. All right, so these are networks that commonly get used for deep learning for sequences. Now more recently, there's been more recently meaning in the last five, six years, now the other architectures that have also kind of taken hold and surpassed even the recurrent networks for a variety of reasons. The recurrent network still remains difficult to train. they don't necessarily focus attention on the right parts of the history in there. And so words that you may have heard in the deep learning literature, convolutional neural networks, which have really had profound impact on my field in computer vision and image analysis can also be applied to sequence data. There are one D-net convolutional networks instead of 2D would be used for images because it's a one-dimensional over time sequence. If you want to get a very large pass history in here, those convolutional networks don't train so well. So dilated networks are an extension of that that allow one to go back further in time. Attention, methods to focus on particular parts of the sequence originally used within the context of RNNs became important. And then what is attention? Attention, it turns out we said gates are an analog, the gates that are used in neural networks, analog version of the digital gate. The attention mechanism is essentially a form, and the language of it is the form of a key value store, where a dip does we think about in Python, where you have a dictionary with a key in a value and you have a query. Now, in a programming language is, you have a query that will match the key and then output the value. This is a soft differential version of a key value store. And that's the kind of core part of what's used in attention. And then transformers were introduced as a method that said, well, we don't need to take attention and put it in recurrent setting. Let's just focus in on this attention mechanism itself. And that's had a very large impact, especially in, well, I just say in natural language processing, a big one, there's an architectural burk that builds off of it. But even now in my own field of computer vision, transformers are now, visual transformers are now largely exceeding the accuracy that convolutional neural networks had been given. All right, going even further than the kind of methods that we have talked about is reinforcement learning. So reinforcement learning comes about when we talk about trading and interacting with the market. When we participate in a market, our actions affect the market. the price of something will change because of our own actions. And the method we've talked about now has been more supervised, where we have a set of training data that doesn't really take into account our own actions within that market. And then reinforcement learning is something that does that. Reinforcement learning is an end-to-end method and it optimizes sequential decision making, buying, selling, buy, settle, and so on, which ones we're in, to maximize not a single reward, but rather the cumulative reward over time. And RL has been extremely successful in games and it's been demonstrated in some robotics. So deep mind, you know, demonstrate through AlphaGo, playing Superhuman Playing, OpenAI with Dota 2, showed in real-time game playing, we can also use RL to do extremely well. Applying RL in finance requires some things. It's an expensive process. It's been very successful in games because the games are very, very well-defined. In our world, what do you need? Well, you need a good simulator. It simulates what the effect of your action is going to be. You need good software for implementing RL. And we leverage things like OpenAI, Jim, and Ray, RLlib and other sources as well as things that we develop ourselves to do reinforcement learning. And you need a lot of computation. There's a lot of simulation that's needed, a lot of examples that need to be run. So you need not only just the hardware, but you need a software infrastructure that will support the scale that's needed. All right, so let me just kind of wrap up now, so we have some time for questions. So first thing to say is, look, many parts the investment pipeline require inference over sequences. I showed the pipeline and argued that at least three of those steps out of the four are problems of sequential decision making. Deep neural networks can and are being trained to implement these parts of the pipeline in various forms. Of course, I haven't given you the details. There are large number of people working in a place like two sigma that are needed for doing that. And so for this kind of work to occur at a place like two sigma and operate the scale that we need, Well, you need lots of data, and 2Sigma has more than 10,000 data sources of information and takes in more than 20 petabytes of new data each year. So the price data is relatively compact. All of that other information that's in all those other forms that gets to kind of become large. You need lots of computation. You need CPUs, GPUs, TPUs. He does good solid software infrastructure, distributed systems and particular software package tailored to our learning methods. And of course, we need lots and lots of creative people to bring this stuff to reality. To Sigma scale, we've got $58 billion of assets under management. We trade in 8,000 equities, it's a lot. And we trade 300 million shares per day. So there's a lot of decisions that have to be made. They have to be made fast. And of course, they're not made by people. They're not emotions don't cloud the decision-making. They're done through these methods. So with this, I'd like to turn our attention over now to taking New York questions. Again, I'll remind you that you can submit questions on slido.com. Use the event name to sigma presents. And there you can upvote and downvote as well on those questions if you haven't already. I'm going to be joined by a collection of panelists. Niranjan is part of the AI core team where I'm working at two sigma. He'll moderate it. And then I'm joined by two members of the recruiting committee, Kyle and Thunder, who will also answer questions. So with that, I will turn it over. And we'll have the panelists join the conversation. Right. Looks like we have quite a few questions on Slido. So let me start with the first one here. Would it be possible to have a copy of these slides after the talk? Yes, sure. So we will actually be releasing a video here in the next few weeks, both to our website as well as LinkedIn. So definitely look out there. However, we will unfortunately not release the slides themselves. But again, video will be out there, so you'll have all the content. Next question. How does the lack of explainability, interpretability associated with deep nets of strategy development at stages along the pipeline, if at all? That's a great question. You know, some of some use cases are indeed black boxes, where you know, you can explain it based on its past history, but you don't know what is being done by decision making. And there are architectures that might introduce intermediate layers of representation that are interpretable, and that would allow some degree of explainability. Next question is how much do you regularize for Black Swan events such as COVID-19? It's totally per the previous distribution. Do you use all else's field's heuristics to stop trading at the point? So, you know, different, I didn't really get into time horizons in the discussion, but there are some trading that happens, you know, quickly that's going to make decisions on seconds, subseconds, minutes through the day, and the distribution of decision making the way people respond during an event like COVID may be different than what happens beforehand. And then there's other short-term market events that can happen. The Fed makes an announcement and that's going to cause perhaps some sudden change in it. I think we also have human traders who monitor these systems in events of market derives. So we do have a top up, I guess, for extreme market events doing the next question. How do these deep learning approaches interact with the hypothesis of an efficient market? So if the, I mean, that, that, so the market is efficient, you know, to a degree, right? So there's a time before the market responds to information. And while everybody has access to the same information, you hope in what we try to do, that we can either respond a little more quickly, responsibly, assimilate the information in a slightly different way than others have done it and combine larger amounts of information the entire market can operate on, and therefore have a chance that the market is not actually fully efficient, that there are inefficiencies where there is an opportunity. And by participating in itself, the market itself does become more efficient. For the aspects of computer vision relevant to sequential modeling and finance, well, sorry, you're looking for intents. So I guess you can answer to the first question they would have done. They can at least say, come on. Yeah. You know, there, if you were to look at the early stage of the pipeline, where you're trying to extract features from unstructured information, that part of the pipeline, there are places where there is image data that can come in and can be used. And there are, there are companies out there that are vendors of information, that actually do that kind of processing. I'm probably not supposed to name them by name, but there are companies that take satellite information for example, and provide analyses of what's going on in harbors, or what's going on with the amount of oil available in tanks, or how many trucks have left a port of entry to be able to provide that kind of information. So there's a place in the early stages for direct image analysis. Otherwise, you know, for myself, there's a lot of the methods and thinking that goes into into computer vision that turns, you know, turns over. So we've done work on video classifications of my PhD students and some of those ideas apply here in sequential decision making. and Anup Kailar Thunder, would you like to take the second part? Yes, so on the end term, so we're cutting side. We are very actively recruiting for engineering, for modeling, so that's part research, at two sigma investments, as well as two sigma securities. So if you're interested, please go online to choose sigma internships. You can look for us. There are applications available. We will continue to recruit into spring, but the earlier that you apply, the center, we can engage with you and make sure that you find the right help. Thank you, Thunder. Next question is, it seems like there is a difference between an AI researcher and a corn researcher at Tussigma, or curious using deep learning, or is it only the people in the AI research team? So I can touch on that. So there are pockets of usage of deep learning throughout the organization. So the different roles that we have out there do map to different teams. However, we do hire, kind of take a little bit more of a pipeline approach to hiring. So whenever we evaluate anyone that applies into one or all of those roles, it's kind of, we evaluate in an inclusive fashion. So, and we ultimately throughout the kind of initial stages and conversations that recruiters have with potential applicants candidates, as well as through the interview process discern which areas within 2 Sigma are the appropriate areas. But yes, there is definite deep learning application throughout, again, a number of areas. I guess another question about available roles. Are there any roles working on sequential modeling themes for recent college grads, MSC level? I can take that one as well. So there are. And kind of similar to what I had mentioned, feel free to apply in, you know, to sigma.com backslash careers. I know we'll be sending that out also via email. So you'll have a direct link there. Take a look, there are a number. It's probably a couple hundred roll set that are actually posted. Don't get overwhelmed. Again, if you see a few, you can search, you know, via keyword, you know, kind of read through, you know, see what looks interesting, apply in a recruiter. Again, if there may be interest there, we'll get in touch with you and we'll talk to you a little bit more about the application of its sequential modeling, again, we'll talk with you through that and map you to the correct interview process. Next question. So, how do you address the lack of stationery in financial time series? Deep learning works well when the distribution of the features does not change from inside product to inside product. Uh, now that's a fantastic question and really is a crux problem that we confront In many ways, every day, and you know, it's certainly deep learning works best when the future looks a lot like the past. And so, you know, parts of things are simulatable, parts of it or not. The extent to which you can simulate and predict and introduce domain transfer methods using that is where you have a chance to address those problems. Next question, how do you quantify the predictive uncertainty of an output that is estimated with the deep neural network model? In other words, how do you know if you can trust a model? Well, I guess this is true for almost every model that you have or anybody who claims to have any prediction or forecasting ability. It, uh, uh, the proof is in the past ability for it to, to, to run, um, you know, and, uh, at some point, you have to, uh, deploy and measure and test and evaluate. Right. And I guess also, since we, the model gets to buy and sell so many times, I guess it doesn't have to be right every time. It just has to be right more often than more. Yeah, that's actually a great point that I should have brought up in the work doing deep learning in this environment is very different than many other ones. So when we try to do things like language translation or speech recognition, the target is 100%. 100%. We want to be 100%, right? In this world, if you're better than 50%, right, you have an edge and you can try to do, take advantage of that better than 50%. So it is a very different kind of world. It's one where the error rates are extremely high compared to many other problems that I've looked at in the past, which has made it extremely interesting. What are the current research areas of deep learning and neural networks that have promising implications for quantitative finance? It's almost none that isn't really of interest, so that's almost a very, very loaded question. Reinforcement learning is an area that's certainly of interest. anything that allows domain transfer or is robust to domain shifts would be very, very valuable. Architectures that, you know, can work that are trainable more quickly that are sparser are all kind of of interest. So there's there's almost no part of going to ICML or ICLur that isn't really of interest is some degree. I don't know if you already address this thunder but doesn't hurt the answer again I guess. When do you start recruiting pure interns? We have started. We want you to apply and we will recruit into spring as well. And I think I saw another one just about the undergrads and so we are recruiting across all degrees so bachelor's masters and PhDs. Yes and data storage question. Are there data Are there any data compression techniques helpful in this? Yes, yes and yes. You know, this talk has focused on if you will, you know, one slice through what we do at two sigma. I mean, this is an example of deep learning applied to the modeling process. However, there is an enormous number of not of storage challenges, as mentioned, 20 petabytes, a year of new storage comes in. It needs to be accessible to the computation that's available. It is, you know, some of it's in the cloud, some of it is on premises, some of the computation is happening in different places. The real-time part for the trading system has certain requirements, which might be different than the requirements that are for a researcher that's developing a new model. So the engineering team is diverse in what it's working on. From storage, the physical systems, the layers that sit on top of the physical systems, and Kyle could probably speak to the whole organization to even better degree than I can. How do deep learning models fair and practice, compared to statistical modeling, like basic regression, kernel density estimation. And how do we balance bias variance trade of data scarcity versus more capacity? You know, they both have roles to play. If the deep model is turns into a degenerate form of a linear regression. It's not interesting as a model. If it provides something that is like an orthogonal source of information, then it's an accepted piece of it. And certainly the history is of using linear models. And so non-linear models like these networks provide new opportunity, perhaps on the same data to get more value. Okay, looks like. Yes, thank you so much for actually over time. And I don't want to keep everyone too late. So thank you so much for joining us today. A huge thank you to Professor David Grigman and to our other panelists around Jim Kyle Thunder. Thank you to learn more about T-Sigma. Check out our blog at twosigma.com slash insights. You can check out openings at 2sigma.com slash careers. And if you have any questions regarding applications, please contact recruiting at 2sigma.com. Thank you also very much for being here today.
