Timestamp: 2025-01-15T11:35:14.884197
Title: 【合集】从赚钱的四个层次来看，怎样才能赚更多的钱你处于哪个层次
URL: https://youtube.com/watch?v=3YMP61WdoOQ&si=0QGb8SbWY9sLpMWZ
Status: success
Duration: 33:42

Description:
**Summary Outline:**

1.  **Wealth Freedom & Time:**
    *   Many young people seem to achieve wealth freedom without traditional struggles.
    *   Wealth freedom is not about money itself but about having control over one's time.
    *   Time is the most scarce resource and is used to exchange for money.
2.  **Four Levels of Making Money:**
    *   **Level 1: Workers:** Trading time directly for a salary. Focus is on immediate wages and benefits.
    *   **Level 2: Growers:**  Investing time in personal growth and skill development alongside paid work; time is 'sold' twice, for income and self-improvement. Growth is a long-term gain.
    *   **Level 3: IP/Creators:** Creating value (products, content) with minimal marginal cost, that can be sold repeatedly. Examples include online courses, templates, etc.
    *   **Level 4: Capitalists:** Using money to buy other people's time and effort to generate more value. Focus is on time management and leverage rather than direct labor.
3.  **Entropy & Self-Discipline:**
    *   Entropy, in a closed system, describes the inevitable increase of disorder/chaos. Living organisms combat this law.
    *   Fighting entropy requires creating an open system for constant energy exchange, and self-regulation and optimisation.
    *   Growth Mindset: Embracing challenges and believing in the potential for improvement. This contrasts with the Fixed Mindset which views abilities as static.
    *   Combating a fixed mindset involves education and restructuring thinking patterns.
    *   Growth comes from moving outside the comfort zone (into learning and panic zones).
    *   Lifelong growth involves continuous self-improvement, breaking plateaus, and adopting a long-term view.
4.  **Current Economic Landscape and Wealth Creation Strategies**
    *   The economic climate is increasingly competitive with saturated markets and a lack of new growth.
    *   Wealth creation involves capitalizing on information asymmetry (the "IQ tax"), imitating successful business models and leveraging capital through lending and asset speculation.
    *   'IQ tax' businesses rely on selling knowledge courses and other virtual products using psychological tactics.
    *   Imitation of higher social classes is a common money-making strategy that creates markets for a variety of goods and services.
    *   High-level wealth is often built through lending (financialization) and asset speculation (bubbles).
5.  **Urban vs. Rural Divide:**
    *   Significant disparities exist between urban and rural children in living conditions, education, and exposure to information and technology.
    *   Historical information barriers and uneven development have created substantial learning gaps.
    *   The internet plays a crucial role in reducing these gaps by democratizing access to information.
    *   Government policies aim to improve rural living conditions and narrow the development gap.
    *    While disparities may lessen, the impact of early life exposure and environment remains significant, with access to quality education still a crucial distinguisher.

**Core Point:** Leveraging time effectively, fostering continuous growth, navigating the economic landscape, and understanding societal divides are crucial for achieving both personal and financial success.

**Fundamental Point:**  Personal and societal advancement require proactively creating open systems for development, combating entropy, and challenging the status quo while seeking understanding, especially in areas of wealth creation and access to opportunity.

**Overarching Framework:** This content operates within a framework of personal and economic development, outlining pathways to wealth and success while also acknowledging systemic challenges and disparities. It balances individual empowerment with broader socio-economic considerations and calls for ongoing growth and adaption within a complex and changing environment.

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph LR
    A[Wealth Freedom] --> B(Time Control);
    B --> C[Time as Resource];
    C --> D[Exchange for Money];
    D --> E[Four Levels of Making Money];
    E --> F[Workers];
    E --> G[Growers];
    E --> H[IP/Creators];
    E --> I[Capitalists];
    F --> J[Time for Salary];
    G --> K[Time for Salary & Growth];
    H --> L[Scalable Value Creation];
    I --> M[Leverage Others' Time];
     N[Entropy & Self-Discipline] --> O[Chaos & Disorder];
    O --> P[Closed Systems];
    N --> Q[Combating Entropy];
    Q --> R[Open Systems];
    Q --> S[Growth Mindset];
    S --> T[Challenging Status Quo];
    Q --> U[Discomfort];
    U --> V[Learning Zones];
    V --> W[Lifelong Growth];
    X[Economic Landscape] --> Y[Competitive Market];
    Y --> Z[Information Asymmetry];
    Z --> AA["IQ Tax"];
    X --> AB[Imitation];
    AB --> AC[Social Class];
    X --> AD[Lending & Speculation];
     AE[Urban vs. Rural Divide] --> AF[Disparities];
    AF --> AG[Living Conditions];
     AG-->AH[Geographic Isolation];
    AF --> AI[Education Gap];
    AI-->AJ[Uneven Development];
     AF-->AK[Technology Access];
    AE --> AL[Internet's Role];
     AL-->AM[Democratized Information];
   AE-->AN[Policy & Development];
     AN-->AO[Rural Support];

    style A fill:#f9f,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style N fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style X fill:#cfc,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style AE fill:#ffc,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    linkStyle 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35 stroke:#555,stroke-width:1px
</Mermaid_Diagram>


Content:
Hello everyone This is Xingbaidu I found a phenomenon Many young people after 90 or even after zero Can you achieve freedom of wealth in just a few years? No need to work overtime at work Look at the face of the boss More importantly They are not rich. This is very scary Wealth and freedom are things that many people have fantasized about all their lives. How did these young people become the chosen ones? I can't figure it out Then I broke inside them. Wanna steal some real success Only to find that there is no so-called shortcut It's just that they know how to turn money into a tool. Know how to make money in the best way. I have to mention the freedom of wealth. You may say that wealth freedom is not a lot of money That's right. but not exactly right Teacher Li Xiaolai's definition of wealth freedom is A person No longer to meet life's needs. And sell yourself out of time In other words, the freedom of wealth is not the freedom of money. But the freedom of time That's why some people put time above everything else. I hate to go to the toilet and bring a stopwatch. Because time is the same for everyone The scarcest resource that cannot be created out of thin air Everyone is using the most fair. The scarcest time in exchange for money How to Turn Your Head to the Highest Ratio It depends on their abilities. Today we talk about the four levels of making money. Almost every layer is related to time. And 90% of the people are still on the first level. I used to be especially afraid of the boss If you run into the boss in the toilet Maybe they'll be incontinent. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha Many people think it's the boss who raises himself. Is their own food and clothing parents So do what you're told But there are some people who dare to give advice to their bosses. Dare to express their views Even dare to quarrel with the boss Because they know that work is a process of value exchange. What you sell yourself is time and ability. The company pays an equivalent salary This is the same reason you go to the vegetable market to buy vegetables. Hand-in-hand delivery Both sides take what they need cooperate with each other Instead of you taking me as a servant I still think of you as a father This is also the first level of money I want to say. People at the first level It's what we often say about workers. Simply sell their own time in exchange for the boss's salary Of course, the same time can only be shot once Typical worker. Just like my original thinking Do what you want They care more about how much money their boss gives When to the end of the year how much bonus Will you get a raise next year? So in the first level of the realm of migrant workers Will continue to improve their own units in their posts The value created by time. in exchange for higher wages. Although this is also a good choice But wanting wealth and freedom is not enough. I stayed on the first floor for a long time. Thinking Waving Curve You can reach the ceiling. But unfortunately Many people have worked for many years and still remain at the level of migrant workers. Unable to extricate themselves If there is anything more important than salary for office workers That must be the ability Take an example Zhang San has 10 years of experience But has been staying at the grassroots level Dare not to jump ship Li Si worked for 3 years to reach the middle level. Then start your own business Because Zhang San just followed the course. All the work is just done for the boss to see Don't touch new things Don't challenge yourself Lying in the comfort zone But Li Si is just the opposite Actively seeking change Keep exercising yourself. Zhang San thinks Li Si is stupid Similarly, Li Si also thinks that Zhang San is stupid. Who is stupid? Let's take a look at Li Si actually working for the boss at the same time Also working for themselves. That is, his time was sold twice First sell to a boss for a paycheck Sell yourself for the second time to grow. What the growers value more is the growth of personal ability Working for the boss is just a side-by-side thing. This is also an investment mindset. Salaries are short-term gains. Growth is a long-term gain. Or we use Buffett's favorite compound force to explain The essence of complex force is that doing something A will lead to result B. And the result B will in turn strengthen a's continuous cycle. Although daily progress It is impossible to strengthen the work of tomorrow every time. But provided us with one thing. The method of judging whether the value is worth doing. can be judged from the two dimensions of value and welfare Value corresponds to the present. Can be mental emotion Physical and material such as compound interest Corresponding to the future Is what you do now has no value in the future can be divided into four quadrants High value, high welfare Like finding true love A well-paid and promising job. High Value Low Benefits such as playing games shopping jobs with high pay and no prospects Low value high welfare Read about low-paying but promising jobs Low value, low negative profit aimless brush mobile phone Low-paid jobs with no prospects So we are good in the employment choice Life style is also good can be judged by these four quadrants If a job doesn't bring you high benefits No matter how much money the boss gives you Do not recommend to do Because growing up at work is the first goal we should consider No growth is the riskiest way to work Before the Internet big factory layoffs If your job is irreplaceable. You don't have to worry about getting laid off. And the people who were laid off by the company It is not the times that have abandoned them. But abandoned their own The first layer of time sold once Second floor time sold twice Third Level Realm Did you already guess Is to sell time many times How to sell many times at the same time? Take an example Mr. Xue Zhaofeng is an economics teacher at Peking University. used to have classes at school Then he got to open a school called Xue Zhaofeng. Audio Lessons in Economics It has sold 400000 copies so far. Fan Deng, who came out of CCTV, founded Fan Deng to study. Read a book a week via video There are already 18 million users. To put it bluntly The value they create is a permanent gain. The marginal cost of late is almost zero. However, you may say that they are all top players. own ip attribute Ordinary people can't do it. Don't worry Let me give you another example of an ordinary person. Let's all use ppt at work You show the boss every day Presentation to customer But have you ever thought about using it to make money? There is a ppt template made after 1990 Wp Designer of the Year for 3 consecutive years Ppt templates alone are worth millions of years. Later he opened a ppt course Teach others how to become a master ppt Now he's ten million years old. This is an example of selling the same time many times. Some say After 30 years old Should spend more time pursuing after-tax income This is a typical example As long as the creation is complete Even lying down to sleep can earn money Isn't it a little stirring What can we do to make money lying down? First we have to be an adult Constantly accumulate their own ability Plus you can provide some kind of value This value is not labor. Not a tangible commodity but a product with zero marginal cost In the end, this value of yours is what others need. Find them and you'll have a steady stream of after-tax income. The most important thing is At this time, your time is not charged. To the third level realm You find that the value of your time has reached the top. The same time has been sold many times How else can you improve This is the fourth level of money. Use money to buy other people's time to create value and then sell it again In fact, we often say that the ten thousand European capitalists There are two typical groups of people Boss and investors The boss is the time to buy the first layer of realm Creating a product or service and then sell it again Investors are more bullish. Buy the boss's time So in the end, it's still the business of time. Only to the fourth level of realm Time is someone else's. So we'll find out they're asking an assistant Please driver. Nanny please Seems to be enjoying life But the more important reason is that they cost a lot of time. the same time They are more willing to create more value Say it bluntly. I prefer to cut more money from our leeks. People in this realm consider the problem from the perspective of time. Not from a money perspective. Anything that consumes time They all prefer to exchange money So they hired us workers. But like I said before Although they have money and ability We don't have to feel inferior. Working for them is the process of value exchange. If the platform they provide is not in the first quadrant You don't have to listen to them running trains with their mouths full. Change runway as soon as possible One final point From the first level of the realm to the fourth level of the realm It takes a long time to accumulate. The effect will not break out until the inflection point is held. Hu Weiwei has been a car reporter for 10 years. He founded the six gods. Lei Lei has been a reporter for 8 years in Xinhua News Agency. To enter the media industry. Papi sauce posted thousands of videos online Before the fire started So stick to doing the right thing And keep going No feedback It's because we haven't reached the inflection point yet. This time can only believe in yourself In business there is a well-known three-stage rocket strategy This is borrowed from the design principles of the rocket. The Rockets are pushing themselves. The first set to build high-frequency head flow The second episode precipitates the user's business scenario. The third question is to complete the business closed loop. It may be a little stupid. Take an example 360's first stage rocket is a free antivirus tool The second stage rocket is free from antivirus tools To become a secure network platform Third Level Rocket is an online advertising game Business Layout of Internet and Value-added Services In fact, the four-tier realm of making money is also in line with the principle of a three-stage rocket. From workers to growers. to IP. This last to the capitalists They all pushed themselves up level by level. So don't just stop at making money Take a long-term goal. Put on creating value Because making money is the result Not the purpose. It doesn't matter which episode it is now. What matters is whether you are pushing yourself. Far Self-ear poking force All right, that's it for this video. Thank you for your patience. If you like the content of Heart River Also hope to subscribe to attention Share with more friends How far can a person go? It depends on who he walks. Concern group and Baidu Let's talk about the growth content with temperature every week. The next video will be there. hello Hello everyone Here is character Baidu to tell you a few desperate phenomenon I just cleaned up the room Within two days, it became a mess. a long time People have no place to make things and can't find them. That's what my parents used to call a pigsty. And a friend fitness Just gave up one. Figure immediately out of shape Abdominal muscle hugging fat expansion Plus not paying attention to the image It's like a different person. A newly established system for an enterprise If not according to the actual situation of iterative optimization After a period of implementation There will inevitably be rigid mechanisms. The inefficiency of overcrowding Why is this? Whether individual or group How can everything go in the direction of chaos and disorder? In fact, the reason for all this can be attributed to entropy Increase Entropy is a concept in physics But this abstract concept How does it relate to real life? That's what we're going to talk about today. After understanding the underlying logic of both You will find that they have amazing similarities. Wounds are as famous in life as he is in physics. Or even notorious Amazon Bezos said in a 1998 letter to shareholders We have to fight the wounds Physicist Schrödinger mentioned in what life is Man lives against the law of entropy. Life lives by negative entropy Wu Guosheng, head of the Department of History of Science at Tsinghua University, even felt If physics only retains one law This law is not Newtonian mechanics Not Einstein's theory of relativity but the law of entropy increase The business is so famous. It's because it's like a big invisible hand-carrying puppet. Manipulating every aspect of society Say so mysterious What the hell is he Let's look at the definition. In an isolated system It is a system without energy input and output such as matter and information. Its overall level of confusion will only increase Will not become small Until maximum chaos is reached And injury is a system of chaos the more chaos The higher the entropy If allowed to develop Will eventually reach the maximum injury It's a constant state of equilibrium There will be no more observable events due to dead silence. Take an example Water in the solid state The vibration range of water molecules is very small System is relatively stable The injury is relatively low at this time. When it becomes liquid The range of water molecules becomes larger And the entropy gets bigger. The temperature rises again When it becomes gaseous Water molecules scurry around The quality is bigger. This is the process of entropy increase To keep water in solid formStable We have to resort to external forces with lower quotient values. For example, pressure, temperature, these This process is entropy reduction. The three phenomena mentioned at the beginning is the process of increasing entropy Let the room not become a pigsty Let the image not sloppy and greasy Let the system not rigid Inefficiency requires self-regulation and optimization of stores like this. We will find that the process of conforming to the entropy increase will be very easy and comfortable. And injury reduction is more anti-human. very painful Entropy increase is unbridled Business is restraint Millet lying on the sofa black tidying up the room must be painful Compared to eating high-calorie food Running dieting is also a commodity of pain Need to break the established rules Although this law has no law Single Push down the reconstruction and the continued self-discipline of the later period Will make people resist and resist Just like the way few people walk All the things mentioned are moving towards disorder and chaos. If you're going to become self-disciplined You'll have to pay tribute against the top. This process will be very painful This is the process of growing up To maintain the normal functioning of the human system You need to continue to input energy Material food, clothing, housing and travel learning on information Social, etc. Without these processes The body will fail The spirit will be confused Eventually lifeless to this point Just like that sentence Many people have died by the age of 20. Only buried until 80 years old There are two key words in the definition of entropy increase. One is isolated closed system Two is no energy input and output So the logic that we have to fight entropy is to open the door. There is an exchange of energy with the outside world. Optimize the internal system There's a concept of a dissipative structure This structure is an open system away from equilibrium. Constantly exchanging matter and energy with the outside world a change in a parameter within the system When a certain threshold is reached Continued non-equilibrium phase transition From the original chaotic disorder state into a kind of time A spatially or functionally ordered state This may be too abstract Let's take an example A straw is an open system It constantly absorbs nutrients and water from the soil. These are the processes of energy exchange Then quantitative change causes qualitative change The watermelon is getting bigger Continue to absorb nutrients and water for energy exchange Huawei Ren Zhengfei has a very classic metaphor for dissipative structure. A person to exercise every day Running is a dissipative structure eat more More energy is stored. Some of the energy is dissipated by running. Some of the energy is converted into muscle. promote synthesis Substances needed by the human body The state of physical health is gradually becoming orderly. So we fight the logic of entropy Is to build itself into such a dissipative structure Entropy increase occurs in isolated closed systems So the first step in combating entropy is to open up the system. Discharge useless damage from the system. then absorb new available material energy and information The Lifelong Growth of Psychologist Carol Dweck Mention the growth mindset and the fixity mindset This works very well with open systems and closed systems. The growth mindset holds that the level of human intelligence is malleable It is said that it can be improved through learning the day after tomorrow. People with opposite fixed thinking felt that the level of intelligence was fixed at birth No matter how hard you try, it's no use. This reflects a person's perception of themselves. Attitude to challenges and resilience to setbacks fixed thinking person If you don't think you have the talent Stupid brain. will avoid the heavy Do only what you are good. If you encounter setbacks It's easy to escape and give up Contrary to the growth mindset, people strongly believe Three days doomed Seven points by hard work dare to challenge Take every opportunity to grow. Even if you encounter setbacks, you can't die. Xiaoqiang to resist entropy increase needs to change the way of thinking first. How to move from a fixed mindset to a growth mindset Here are four steps to share The first step Accept us. Everyone is actually a mixture of growth and fixed. It is nothing more than the proportion of the two is not the same So there's no need to contradict the fact It's like seeing a doctor. Lie to yourself Said no disease, there is no possibility of cure Step 2 Observation Record Observing yourself under what circumstances will stimulate fixed thinking When fixed personality appears What are the bad things and effects? Record every time you appear. The more detailed the time-induced reaction results, the better. Then according to the characteristics of induction finishing Category You can also name them. Such as pressure Two dogs are coming. I just want to escape As soon as flowers come, I can't be anxious. This not only helps to remember and distinguish between figurative names It also helps us fight them. The Third Step of Education It's not about restraint or getting rid Because the essence of fixed thinking is to protect you Make you feel safe The original intention of the two dogs and the flower is good. But apparently they're only half done At this time, we need to educate it with growth thinking. Two dogs. You see how much I learn English When you came, I failed to pass the high number. You can either challenge with me Or go away Multiple education fixed thinking will be weakened. The fourth fairy tale Two dogs after Ruohua Still don't know what to do to meet the challenge At this time, we need to use growth thinking. Teach him what kind of mentality and thoughts he should have hand in hand. By what way to break through How to recover if you fail. It's a fairy tale process Slowly these fixed thinking will be transformed into growth thinking. away from the equilibrium state is the second characteristic of the dissipative structure The author of the dissipative structure, Puligo Gold, argues that Non-equilibrium is the source of order How can we break the balance There are two things we can focus on. Jump out of the comfort zone. American psychologist Nordics. came up with a theory of behavior change It's about grading individual behavior change into comfort zones. The three intervals of the learning zone and the panic zone Comfort zone is no pressure No challenge a state without any burden Everything you have to do is within your ability. No effort needed There are not too many demands is a relatively balanced state Learning is a challenge for people. but can be achieved through effort For example, the score of 60 points has been raised to 70 points. Not so much as to feel anxious and uncomfortable A panic zone is too much business or knowledge beyond capacity. Psychological feeling will be serious discomfort For example, 60 points must be raised to 100 points. could lead to a crash even give up learning The comfort zone balance is only temporary Because the equilibrium state is when the entropy is maximum. I remember the teacher said a word in class before When the people around you are not as good as you is the most dangerous time Because you're starting to go downhill You can handle everything easily in your comfort zone. But this does not mean that the ability is high On the contrary, it may be that the difficulty coefficient of doing things is low. It will cause a kind of false prosperity. If you want to fight against the increase in entropy in life. According to the dissipative structure you have to stay away from equilibrium which is to leave the area where you feel very comfortable Take the initiative to the learning area Even the panic zone Two lifelong growth We all know that growth conforms to the S-curve. From a period of slow accumulation to a period of rapid development Finally reach a high plateau in the stationary period A lot of people will feel like this. But some people think This is just a slow accumulator for the next s-curve That is to say, the growth model is not just an s-curve. But like a staircase to constantly break through the process of self Climbers don't stop just because they climb a mountain. Athletes don't stop training just because they break records. Every outstanding person continues to grow through his life. This nurtures lifelong growth Share a few suggestions here Don't set limits to yourself easily. Otherwise, it will enter the strange circle of fixed thinking. Rest on your laurels after completing your goals and should accomplish a goal in setting the next goal Keep breaking through yourself. constantly breaking the balance Second, take a long-term view. As a long-term activist A lot of times we fall into the scarcity trap Be held hostage by what you belong to now. Ignoring something important but not urgent For example, the more long-term growth The more gains are in long-termism. Three key drugs to allocate resources There are priorities for everything. You can use the four quadrants of time management to help allocate time and energy. Spend as much money as possible. This faith to survive the tipping point Growth is non-linear. There is no qualitative change because the tipping point has not yet been reached. This time can only believe in their own stick to it With a prepared attitude to meet the explosive growth A seemingly unrelated law of physics It affects every aspect of society. No wonder the chemist Atkins list it as one of the four laws that drive the universe But compared to not find life chaos Causes of emotional loss of control At least now we know where it is. Also know the underlying logic of continuous growth That's all for this video. Thank you for your patience. If you like the content of Heart River Also hope to subscribe to attention Share with more friends How far can a person go? It depends on who he walks. Concern group and Baidu Let's talk about the growth content with temperature every week. The next video will be there. Hello everyone Here is the new high Baidu everyone is saying Now is not a stage of rapid development But a more and more volume of the stage The power of capital is pervasive As a result, all industries and fields are basically saturated. The result of the incremental increase is the transfer of stocks to each other. In the past, listening to those business tycoons was still a little fresh. There was nothing new after that. Speaking of which, it is the new retail sinking market. Internet Plus has only one purpose in the end. Is to help business owners to engage in circulation Help business owners cut consumers' leeks. Can not dare to talk nonsense How do you say these are commodity circulation is a serious business. But the reality is that these have been unable to satisfy the appetite of the bosses Because this process is very long To use money to make goods Find the market to kill the opponent to make money Time-consuming, laborious and thankless So the big guys like to play finance now. Flowers Borrow it. White bar gold bar this operation is to save time and effort Come on, money. No new science and technology No new economic momentum No Increment Only stock competition Mutual transfer of wealth Poor Zhang San lost Li si left hand to right hand So now people are mostly afraid to quit Dare to invest It is king to keep the existing cake first. There are some cattle people on the Internet No new science and technology to lead the new economic wave The previous money-making routines are summarized in the following three ways Let's have a look Back off. I'm going to start pretending People are known to pay for their entire lives. So IQ tax becomes a good deal. One of the most typical is to pay for knowledge. This also caters to the current volume environment. Everyone wants more cake. The only way is to arm yourself Where's your fucking Italian gun? Pull it up for me. We can discover that in addition to applied science The highest percentage of knowledge payments are some of the more virtual things. For example, wealth creation classes economic class interpersonal relationship Emotional career planning and so on Most of these areas have no real technology. It's all a routine of thinking. Play is to stimulate and prophet the desire of spectators Suspect's Disease Anxiety and then tell you You can't do it now But just learn my class In fact, the purpose is to lure you to the bait. Then slowly let you pay for class The only thing that has changed is that there is less and less money. Because most of those mentors don't know how to make money. How to improve interpersonal relationships How to Plan Life They only care about how many people buy their classes. Insiders say Some course institutions and a company have a dozen employees. Can develop 328 classes in one year One day except holidays I want to go to the online copy and paste this method Who expects these courses to change their lives, right? Even if some mentors have the real thing Also don't want to for thousands of dollars of tuition fees and tell the truth For example, the essence of wealth creation lies in the distribution of benefits. distribution of benefits again in an area of policy So break away from these talking windows Why don't you read the book yourself? For example, emotional and interpersonal relationships In fact, mentors are to satisfy the audience Self-centered psychology. Then I will upgrade the version to talk about some cases of EQ. Except the parties can resonate. The use value is not high Another example is career planning. In those environments where even doctors apply for secondary school teachers. These techniques seem to pale Planning a career is not as good as planning how not to be cut leeks. In the past, IQ taxes were mostly offline. There must be a lecturer. It's like calling the trainees together for a mobilization meeting. high cost High threshold All right now The Internet Makes Information Flow Easier a computer One network cable A ppt will do. That is to say, the threshold of knowledge payment is low. Come on, money. The competition is naturally more intense In such a market environment Who runs fast Who can againPreemptive traffic Cut the first wave of leeks If you want to run fast, you can't settle down. Focus on polishing the content Unless the financial resources Burn money. No way Want not to be expelled by bad money Then it will all become bad money But the victims are consumers. We also spent money Time is also wasted In the end, I got nothing. A reporter in the black cat complaint platform search to see The industry's three major head companies micro-open cattle long investment. More than 900 complaints in February 2021 In the 1960 s and 1970 s, businessmen knew a secret to making money. That is to walk in front of the imitation We all know that people are divided into circles and classes. Between the circles is a lower layer Constantly imitating the relationships at the top The lower circle strives to imitate all the actions of the upper circle. From food, clothing, housing and movement to behavior patterns And the previous circle tried to get rid of the lower Rubik's Cube. This step runs one step never ending Business opportunities arise again. Imitation is to connect the disk. Making money is playing with the upper class. The rest of the things go to the lower level to find the catcher Domestic high-level imitation of foreign aristocrats The domestic middle class imitates the domestic top The four or five lines imitate the first-line middle class. Village imitation built and provincial capitals The biggest group of caterers right now is the middle class. Because consumption has a certain capacity The middle class imitates the upper class Arm yourself with famous brands in your clothes. But the money in my pocket is too tight to pay. Then came Zara and something like that. Also called fast fashion In fact, it is copied out Version almost poor quality The same is true for buying a middle-level food. Many online red shops come from this way. Whether it's delicious or not environment is better The price is more expensive The middle class should be the most important education So study abroad, graduate school, PhD In fact, education is also a commodity Is the upper class to play The rest include MIT Harvard University Offers from American universities including Stanford University Can be paid to get There are two ways One is the donation exposure group Designed to provide children from well-capitalized families with access to prestigious schools Pan Shiyi donated $15 million to Harvard His youngest son went to Harvard Not unexpected Open not happy The other is institutional admission. This condition of the students themselves have certain requirements If it's for further study That's understandable But just to gild myself High tuition fees are just a kind of senior loser. Learning piano ballet etiquette equestrian is also imitated from the top down The upper class has more money So learn to play The middle class thought they had learned and got dozens of tickets to the upper class. In fact, most of them are just a waste of money. In these Rubik's Cubes Business opportunities arise. go abroad intermediary Art Training All kinds of light luxury pseudo luxury School District Room Walk in front of the imitation of the business to be relatively easy As long as you can grasp the key points of imitation Have time and money Coupled with painstaking management High probability can build a money making machine Imitate this style It usually lasts 10 years and 20 years. Especially the higher the level of imitation such as the worship and imitation of the Western aristocracy The business opportunities here can last for decades or even hundreds of years. The road ahead to make money is still at the stage of making money and making money. To put it bluntly, it's all hard money. There is no more advanced routine than blowing foam. This way the West has been walking for nearly 200 years. Nothing more than two dinners Lending and asset speculation The nice way to call it is So-and-so finance and so-and-so investment are blowing bubbles. within this level. Money is numbers. As long as there's a way to blow You can blow it up. Low-level thinking sees money as a reward for all kinds of efforts. High-level thinking to see money Money is a number. No need to work No need to pay Just find a chance to blow the cannon You can blow more money. Lending is playing with welfare Capital is bigger and is playing with lending. Let's look at all kinds of online loans on the market. This is the core weapon of the bosses The so-called company's own business is superficial. This can only be played with sufficient funds. And those so-called tech companies The Last Step for Internet Companies The other is asset speculation. The core of capitalism is capital. The core of capital lies in asset prices The core of earning capital is to blow up asset prices. That is, the bubble. If the whole society has only a B c3 commodities Total value 300 yuan Each item was originally worth 100 yuan. Efforts to raise the price of commodity A to 200 yuan If the total value remains unchanged Then the other two goods are only worth 50 yuan. But so play too obvious So the reality is that hundreds of dollars more currency So A is worth 400 yuan. Each value of B and c is 200 yuan. Everyone went up. It's just that A has risen a lot. This everyone can accept But if only a rose B and C are down. Everyone can't accept it. A is almost playing. It's time to play with B. Blow high B and then sell it to find the receiver. Change to C to play again in this business. You need to buy assets that are about to blow up in advance. As long as you play capital, there must be bubbles. No bubble can throw away capital, right? So those so-called expert analyses Is there a bubble in such and such an asset? Pure lying with open eyes Confuse Earn flow IQ tax For the whole people The best thing about 15 years ago was real estate. Start dividing today. The most fun is the first-line core area Rent and Sell negotiable property This is almost played. The next one could be the stock market or rural land. This is the three-level routine of making money. Said these are not to let everyone speculate Of course, some high-level play We also have no ability to participate. But know the rules of the game We can avoid cutting leeks as much as possible. From a manipulated piece to a rational bystander Only when you step on the pit can you have the probability of making money. Right? All right. That's all for this video. Thank you for your patience. If you like the content of Heart River Also hope to subscribe to attention Share with more friends How far can a person go? It depends on who he walks. Concern and Baidu Let's talk about the growth content with temperature every week. The next video will be there. Hello everyone Here is the Star River Baidu Have you found any friends? There are programs like Metamorphosis at home and abroad. and very popular The children of the two families exchange identities. experience each other's life The impact of this huge drop Can be said to be full of blood But the show is just the show In addition to manufacturing practice topics My ratings are not educational. Can not dare to talk nonsense Take an example The poverty of a poor child like me. It's not something the rich second generation can experience in a few days. On the contrary, if I go to the rich second generation's house for a few days Go back to your own home again Maybe there is a heart that wants to die. So this feeling itself is From the starting point of experiencing life for the rich. As for the psychological impact on the children of poor families They don't care This isn't what a large double label site is There was a poor boy named Wu Zonghong After taking part in metamorphosis Don't want to go back to the countryside Frequent harassment of parents in the city It was finally blacked out. There are not a few similar cases. Because once you experience the urban family The child enjoys the advantages They'll find they're not losing at the starting line. It's not even qualified to stand on the starting line. Today we will talk through several aspects How far is the starting line between urban children and rural children? First, the living conditions. Due to the influence of geographical location Information in remote areas is extremely closed The development speed is a conservative estimate for first-and second-tier cities at 10 pm. This point as after 80 I feel quite deep Before the year 2000. Some county areas are almost isolated from the outside world. The car can't get in. People can't get out Many people have never been on a train before they were 30. Even adult has not been to any city Activity radius not exceeding 100km All by legs. Riding a bicycle is already in good condition. By the year 2000 The first 10 years are almost over. CCTV News is already saying that Internet cafes are harmful to teenagers. Some counties have just had Internet cafes. And they all use computers eliminated from the city. Many children go to Internet cafes and don't know where the start key is. These are still the state of mind Villages and villages are more serious. Under such circumstances Talking about family education is extravagant hope In a closed environment, people's cognition of society is extremely limited. Parents seldom give their children a good knowledge education Not to mention the quality and accomplishment Can go to school to school If you don't want to learn, go home and farm. This is not a joke is the real situation When you get old, find someone to marry. Based on the Next Generation Cycle A 17-year-old girl is married. It's not unusual to be a grandmother until you're about 40. A friend of mine is just 32 years old. Children can not only play soy sauce All have been in junior high school words of farming Agricultural mechanization has been popularized in some areas Boxer and harvesters and other large mechanical automation operation But there are many remote areas that are still dominated by hand tools. Most young people today don't know what driving is. What is a hoe What is pear Children Do you have many question marks Look at the level of education. Alien villages and towns have only junior high schools and primary schools. If you want to go to Senior high school, you have to go to the county seat 20km away. Schools with lodging conditions are fine. If you can't stay That is to say, you have to walk 40km to school every day. That's not just in the news. So many families choose not to keep their children in school. Because at this age can already help the family work One more labor force can reduce the burden on families a little more. And many parents know very well Due to limited teaching conditions Even if you pay your own Senior high school Very few children can be admitted to more than two schools. Even if admitted to three Due to the high tuition fees for the family is also difficult to bear Want to go out and make a dash Then they will find the same village to work outside. Or someone with a craft to bring the kids around. such as carpentry Masonry Excavator Learn and earn money This low enrolment and transition rate Not a family can control It is caused by the overall level of education in schools and society. Can't change in the short term in rural Senior high school If a school has dozens of teachers Scholars with bachelor's degree can be counted The rest are all college or Secondary specialized school graduates. Such a level of teaching can be imagined And students from the countryside Because the previous foundation was already relatively weak It's easy to fall behind in high school. There is no way to devote more than ten years of painstaking efforts with the whole family. City kids compete. Let's just compare the countryside with ordinary cities. If you put it in a first-tier city The gap is even more outrageous. Take English for example. Like when I was a child in junior high school began to learn English So up to now, I can't say a complete sentence. In some places, children learn English from grade 3. In Shanghai, they all started to learn in grade 1. And in the early '90s Many public schools in Shanghai have already used original English textbooks. Almost all the children in good condition at home It is bound to be issued in the new concept English cram school during the summer vacation. By the late '90s Many key secondary schools in Shanghai have been replaced with textbooks from Oxford Press. Those who want to learn American pronunciation will also buy one and travel all over the United States. Whether the US version or the English version Shanghai prefers the original foreign goods Therefore, Li Lei and Han Meimei, who were more popular online before, were the stalks of the Internet. After 1980, Shanghai was stunned. Because they don't know Also, when we were in college, we made fun of the fourth grade. unimaginable for students in Shanghai Because level four is nothing to them. Technology product acquisition is more telling Children in developed coastal areas were first exposed to computers. Probably from 1990 to 1992. The mainstream model at this time is the Intel 386 If you buy it yourself At that time, the price was around 8000 yuan. This price is definitely nothing now. But at that time, the average wage of residents in the country was only over 2000 yuan a year. Not unexpected So if your home was in 1990 If you can afford 4 years' salary for ordinary people to buy you a computer to study You can be 5 to 6 years ahead of other children. Exposure to European and American PC games Of course, the others didn't wait too long. before and after 1995 Most of the developed areas of ordinary children Also exposed to European and American entertainment content The biggest feature of PC games compared to fc games is English. Reading volume straight up than jumping around to avoid bullets Playing PC games is interesting only if you understand the plot. Many people can't recite the text But let him learn a few words of construction complete yes commander absolutely learn perfectly Early years the value of the Chinese market foreigners did not see So it's not like kids today You can get genuine Chinese content everywhere. What should I do when I meet all English games after 1980? An English dictionary or a literary star next to the computer. See once check once See twice check twice Check it three or four times. It is absolutely impossible to forget Also, at that time, Shanghai TV station broadcast it directly. The American TV series of the 90 s Guangzhou because of the radiation from tvb Also let after 80 get a lot of written content And the remote areas may not even have TV, the kind of city. And because there were no satellites at the time. Can't see So this again creates a difference in the child's vision. So here comes the question Will today's children continue to repeat this gap of difference? Personally, I think it might But the difference will get smaller and smaller Because of the existence of the Internet Information is basically transparent. Check everything online. It is indeed the most revolutionary tool to eliminate the difference between urban and rural areas. That was not the case 20 years ago. 1998 to 2000 This phase Probably the largest stage of information barriers between urban and rural areas in China. On one side are developed coastal areas Already one foot into the Internet age On the other side is a lot of remote areas Not even electricity and roads. And the inland cities that are caught in The children's career is entirely based on the parents' profession. Access to advanced information There is no chance of groping on your own. The reason why this generation after 80 Growing up experience difference is the biggest It's because everyone is as poor as before. I don't know the same thing. And then the Internet flattens the tea again. Only in the 90 s. The rich are already rich. The ones behind haven't caught up yet. cause the difference to be dramatically widened Fortunately, today's children have the Internet. Events after the Ninth Five-Year Plan and even after zero much flatter than we thought Although the wealth divide has been But the information gap is basically no. If the last 20 years What has leveled the urban-rural and regional differences to the greatest extent That must be the biggest gap between people on the Internet. is the information gap And the emergence of the Internet is undoubtedly a dimension reduction blow revolutionized the way ordinary people access information Especially the price of mobile phone computer Coupled with the rapid iteration of wireless communications After about 2009. At the speed of the furious advance Achieved the complete popularization of the Internet in China to today Even a young man in a ravine As long as there is a mobile phone I found the signals of three major information providers. They and the children of Shanghai and Beijing There will be no qualitative difference in the fundamental right of access to public information Also in rural economic construction This depends on whether the national policy is good for the countryside. Proposed by the Fifth Plenary Session of the 18th Central Committee The rural poor will be lifted out of poverty by 2020. The Goal Requirement of Building a Well-off Society in an All-round Way nearing completion The country has entered a period of convergence between poverty alleviation and rural revitalization strategies. 14 five planning also pointed out Poverty alleviation and rural revitalization are the realization of China's agriculture. rural modernization Two Major Strategic Tasks That Must Be Completed for Farmers to Live a Rich Life It can be seen that the state is improving farmers' income sources. Living standards have great determination This is everyone's vision. Born as a human being No one wants to see themselves or their next generation. Too much behind others Everyone has the right to good living conditions. Medical security Transaction Policy Employment environment and other comprehensive social service system We also believe that someday in the future Rural children can also learn more knowledge like urban children. Become a more capable person Finally, let me ask you a question. Do you think the gap between rural and urban areas will become smaller and smaller? Please leave a message to tell me good This is the end of the video. Thank you for your patience. If you like the content of Heart River I also hope that the third company of love will share it with more friends. How far can a person go? It depends on who he walks. Concern and Baidu Let's talk about the growth content with temperature every week. The next video is missing
