Timestamp: 2025-12-14T08:10:50.566752
Title: Mark Chen: On AI’s New Frontiers
URL: https://youtube.com/watch?v=zBHo-rWu1HI&si=jpQ9rjKSkBKl86Jz
Status: success
Duration: 29:44

Description:
好的，这是对所提供文本内容的深度提炼、总结和可视化。

### **核心观点大纲**

**I. 个人背景与职业转型 (马克·陈)**
*   **A. 成长与教育**：在东西海岸和台湾之间流动的成长经历，培养了对不同环境（自由与纪律）的适应性；在麻省理工学院（MIT）主修数学，后期才接触计算机科学。
*   **B. 从金融到AI**：
    *   **早期职业**：在高频交易行业工作，这段经历培养了他在实验中的严谨性和原则性。
    *   **转型动机**：受AlphaGo事件启发，并感到金融行业缺乏改变世界的实质性影响力，因此决定投身于更具变革潜力的AI领域，加入了当时的非营利组织OpenAI。

**II. AI技术的核心洞见与现状**
*   **A. AI发展的双重驱动力**：
    *   **涌现能力**：AI的进步并非线性可预测。随着模型规模扩大和精度提升（如从GPT-2到GPT-4），会涌现出如上下文学习、解决复杂考试等无法提前预知的全新能力。
    *   **算法与算力**：AI的飞跃是算法创新和算力增长共同作用的结果，其中**算法效率的提升略微领先于算力的贡献**。
*   **B. Transformer架构的主导地位**：
    *   **核心优势**：因其在“简洁性”和“表达能力”之间取得了极佳平衡，成为主流架构。
    *   **生态壁垒**：硬件（芯片）、软件（内核）和科研生态都围绕其构建，为任何潜在的替代技术设置了极高的门槛。
*   **C. 行业认知差距**：
    *   **金融界的怀疑论**：金融行业（尤其是高频交易）对AGI能在短期内颠覆经济持更保守态度。
    *   **原因分析**：成功不仅取决于模型本身，还受到**延迟、私有数据源**等模型之外的“外在因素”的巨大影响。

**III. AI的前沿探索与未来展望**
*   **A. 关键前沿领域**：
    *   **多模态 (Multimodality)**：证明了Transformer等统一架构可以处理文本、图像、音频等多种数据，是实现DALL-E等可控内容生成的关键。
    *   **推理 (Reasoning)**：AI正发展出从少量数据中高效学习和提取洞察的能力，这对于数据相对稀疏的专业领域（如药物研发、芯片设计）至关重要。
    *   **创造与发明 (Invention)**：AI已在需要“跳出范式”的算法竞赛中展现出惊人的创造力。未来挑战在于让模型拥有“品味”，能主动提出有价值的研究任务。
    *   **具身智能与智能体 (Embodiment & Agents)**：AI的未来形态是能操作计算机（数字世界）乃至机器人（物理世界）的智能体。这将是AI从信息处理工具到行动执行者的关键一步。
*   **B. 对未来的构想与影响**：
    *   **人机协作新范式**：未来的交互模式将从操作多个独立App转变为与一个统一的、无处不在的智能体对话，由它在后台完成所有任务。
    *   **增强而非取代**：AI将成为专业人士和创业者的“杠杆”，通过大幅提升生产力来满足更多未被满足的需求，而非简单地取代工作岗位。
    *   **当前的核心瓶颈**：行业发展的最大限制不是算力，而是**需要更多顶尖的研究人员和创新的想法**。

### **核心结论**

AI正通过算法和规模化的双重驱动，以前所未有的速度解锁推理、多模态和创造等“涌现能力”，其最终形态将是无处不在的智能体，从根本上重塑科学发现、商业模式以及人类与数字世界的交互方式。

### **总体框架**

本次对话的框架遵循一个“由人到事，由内到外”的逻辑路径：
1.  **个人历程 (The Person)**：从嘉宾马克·陈独特的个人成长和职业转型切入，为他的观点和洞察提供背景。
2.  **技术核心 (The Technology)**：深入探讨当前AI技术的核心驱动力（算法与算力）、基础架构（Transformer）及其在行业中的实际应用与挑战。
3.  **未来图景 (The Future)**：展望AI的前沿领域（多模态、推理、创造、具身智能），并构想其最终形态（智能体）将如何深刻地影响社会和个人。

### **Mermaid概念图**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    subgraph "AI的演进与未来 (The Evolution and Future of AI)"
        direction LR
        subgraph "I. 核心驱动力 (Driving Forces)"
            A["算法创新 (Algorithmic Innovation)"] -- "略微领先" --> C["模型能力的涌现 (Emergent Capabilities)"];
            B["算力增长 (Compute Growth)"] --> C;
            C -- "例如" --> D["GPT-4: 解决复杂问题 (Solving Complex Problems)"];
        end

        subgraph "II. 基础架构 (Core Architecture)"
            E["Transformer模型"] -- "拥有" --> F["简洁性与表现力的平衡 (Balance of Simplicity & Expressiveness)"];
            F --> G["主导地位与生态壁垒 (Dominance & Ecosystem Barrier)"];
        end

        subgraph "III. 前沿领域 (Frontier Areas)"
            H["多模态 (Multimodality)"] -- "统一处理 (Unified Processing)" --> I["文本、图像、音频 (Text, Image, Audio)"];
            J["推理 (Reasoning)"] -- "实现 (Enables)" --> K["小数据高效学习 (Efficient Learning from Small Data)"];
            L["创造与发明 (Invention)"] -- "潜力 (Potential for)" --> M["解决非范式问题 (Solving Non-Pattern Problems)"];
            N["具身智能 (Embodiment)"] -- "目标 (Goal)" --> O["操作物理/数字世界 (Interacting with Physical/Digital World)"];
        end

        subgraph "IV. 最终形态与社会影响 (Ultimate Form & Impact)"
            P["智能体 (Agents)"] -- "取代 (Replaces)" --> Q["传统App与操作系统 (Traditional Apps & OS)"];
            P -- "赋能 (Empowers)" --> R["科学发现 (Scientific Discovery)"];
            P -- "赋能 (Empowers)" --> S["创业模式 (Entrepreneurship)"];
            T["人机交互重塑 (Reshaping Human-Computer Interaction)"];
            P --> T;
        end
    end

    C -- "依赖" --> E;
    E -- "探索" --> H;
    E -- "探索" --> J;
    E -- "探索" --> L;
    E -- "探索" --> N;
    N -- "演变为" --> P;

    style A fill:#D5E8D4,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style B fill:#DAE8FC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style C fill:#FFE6CC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style E fill:#F8CECC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style P fill:#E1D5E7,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style H fill:#FFF2CC
    style J fill:#FFF2CC
    style L fill:#FFF2CC
    style N fill:#FFF2CC
    style R fill:#D5E8D4
    style S fill:#D5E8D4
    style T fill:#DAE8FC
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
Welcome to Tech Unheard, the podcast, Welcome to Tech Unheard, the podcast, that takes you behind the scenes of the, that takes you behind the scenes of the, that takes you behind the scenes of the, most exciting developments in, most exciting developments in, most exciting developments in, technology. I'm Renee Hos, your host and, technology. I'm Renee Hos, your host and, technology. I'm Renee Hos, your host and, CEO of ARM. Today, I'm joined by Mark, CEO of ARM. Today, I'm joined by Mark, CEO of ARM. Today, I'm joined by Mark, Chen, chief research officer at OpenAI., Chen, chief research officer at OpenAI., Chen, chief research officer at OpenAI., You might know them as the creators of, You might know them as the creators of, You might know them as the creators of, Chad GPT and Dolly. Before serving as, Chad GPT and Dolly. Before serving as, Chad GPT and Dolly. Before serving as, chief research officer, Mark was a head, chief research officer, Mark was a head, chief research officer, Mark was a head, of frontiers research at OpenAI, of frontiers research at OpenAI, of frontiers research at OpenAI, focusing on multimodal modeling and, focusing on multimodal modeling and, focusing on multimodal modeling and, reasoning research. Mark has led the, reasoning research. Mark has led the, reasoning research. Mark has led the, teams that's created Dolly, developed, teams that's created Dolly, developed, teams that's created Dolly, developed, codeex, and incorporated visual, codeex, and incorporated visual, codeex, and incorporated visual, perception into GBT4., perception into GBT4., perception into GBT4., Now, in his current role, Mark's goal is, Now, in his current role, Mark's goal is, Now, in his current role, Mark's goal is, to push the frontier for open AI science, to push the frontier for open AI science, to push the frontier for open AI science, and research. Mark Chen, welcome to ARM., and research. Mark Chen, welcome to ARM., and research. Mark Chen, welcome to ARM., You've come all this way to uh to meet, You've come all this way to uh to meet, You've come all this way to uh to meet, with me. Thank you so much. Yeah, thank, with me. Thank you so much. Yeah, thank, with me. Thank you so much. Yeah, thank, you for having me. Yeah, know good to uh, you for having me. Yeah, know good to uh, you for having me. Yeah, know good to uh, good to see you in person. You know, good to see you in person. You know, good to see you in person. You know, they say when when you read, they say when when you read, they say when when you read, autobiographies or biographies, you, autobiographies or biographies, you, autobiographies or biographies, you, know, start at the beginning because the, know, start at the beginning because the, know, start at the beginning because the, beginning will tell you a whole heck of, beginning will tell you a whole heck of, beginning will tell you a whole heck of, a lot. So, maybe just s starting with, a lot. So, maybe just s starting with, a lot. So, maybe just s starting with, where you grew up, uh how you got into, where you grew up, uh how you got into, where you grew up, uh how you got into, technology the way that you did., technology the way that you did., technology the way that you did., Absolutely. So, it's a really hard, Absolutely. So, it's a really hard, Absolutely. So, it's a really hard, question to answer. Unfortunately, you, question to answer. Unfortunately, you, question to answer. Unfortunately, you, started with probably the hardest one, started with probably the hardest one, started with probably the hardest one, but um I was born on the east coast, but, but um I was born on the east coast, but, but um I was born on the east coast, but, my parents were very pneumatic, so we, my parents were very pneumatic, so we, my parents were very pneumatic, so we, moved around a lot. My parents worked at, moved around a lot. My parents worked at, moved around a lot. My parents worked at, Bell Labs and then uh they moved over to, Bell Labs and then uh they moved over to, Bell Labs and then uh they moved over to, the west coast. So I did part of my, the west coast. So I did part of my, the west coast. So I did part of my, schooling in the west coast and in, schooling in the west coast and in, schooling in the west coast and in, Homedale, New Jersey. They were in, Homedale, New Jersey. They were in, Homedale, New Jersey. They were in, Edison. Yeah. But but in the homeale, Edison. Yeah. But but in the homeale, Edison. Yeah. But but in the homeale, site site. Exactly. Yeah. So after that, site site. Exactly. Yeah. So after that, site site. Exactly. Yeah. So after that, you know, my dad got the startup, you know, my dad got the startup, you know, my dad got the startup, He moved over to California. We were, He moved over to California. We were, He moved over to California. We were, there for a couple years and then we, there for a couple years and then we, there for a couple years and then we, went back to Taiwan after that. So, went back to Taiwan after that. So, went back to Taiwan after that. So, that's where I did my high school and, that's where I did my high school and, that's where I did my high school and, part of middle school. Oh my gosh. Yeah., part of middle school. Oh my gosh. Yeah., part of middle school. Oh my gosh. Yeah., How old were you when you moved? I think, How old were you when you moved? I think, How old were you when you moved? I think, uh probably 12 or 13 years old. So, uh probably 12 or 13 years old. So, uh probably 12 or 13 years old. So, coming from the US public school system, coming from the US public school system, coming from the US public school system, when you got into Taiwan, you're like, when you got into Taiwan, you're like, when you got into Taiwan, you're like, "Oh my god, what did that?" Yeah. No, it, "Oh my god, what did that?" Yeah. No, it, "Oh my god, what did that?" Yeah. No, it, was um rebellion for half a year. But I, was um rebellion for half a year. But I, was um rebellion for half a year. But I, think there is a kind of love where you, think there is a kind of love where you, think there is a kind of love where you, know it starts as hate and you know, know it starts as hate and you know, know it starts as hate and you know, after 6 months I I really love Taiwan., after 6 months I I really love Taiwan., after 6 months I I really love Taiwan., You know it's just the center of the, You know it's just the center of the, You know it's just the center of the, trip ecosystem. So for sure for sure I, trip ecosystem. So for sure for sure I, trip ecosystem. So for sure for sure I, am quite curious about coming from the, am quite curious about coming from the, am quite curious about coming from the, was it a public school or private school, was it a public school or private school, was it a public school or private school, in the US? It was a public school. So, in the US? It was a public school. So, in the US? It was a public school. So, coming from the US public school system, coming from the US public school system, coming from the US public school system, at age 12 or 13 into Taiwan, did you, at age 12 or 13 into Taiwan, did you, at age 12 or 13 into Taiwan, did you, find like, oh my gosh, I got to catch, find like, oh my gosh, I got to catch, find like, oh my gosh, I got to catch, up? Well, it was a little bit of a, up? Well, it was a little bit of a, up? Well, it was a little bit of a, culture shock, but I already liked math, culture shock, but I already liked math, culture shock, but I already liked math, and science a lot. So, a lot of it was, and science a lot. So, a lot of it was, and science a lot. So, a lot of it was, just, you know, going from more of a, just, you know, going from more of a, just, you know, going from more of a, kind of a freespirited teenager to an, kind of a freespirited teenager to an, kind of a freespirited teenager to an, environment where everyone's wearing, environment where everyone's wearing, environment where everyone's wearing, uniforms, right? You have fairly strict, uniforms, right? You have fairly strict, uniforms, right? You have fairly strict, uh kind of teaching style. So, that was, uh kind of teaching style. So, that was, uh kind of teaching style. So, that was, the big adjustment. But I think it was, the big adjustment. But I think it was, the big adjustment. But I think it was, good to get experience from both of, good to get experience from both of, good to get experience from both of, these worlds, right? One where it was, these worlds, right? One where it was, these worlds, right? One where it was, more about kind of learning for yourself, more about kind of learning for yourself, more about kind of learning for yourself, and another environment where it was, and another environment where it was, and another environment where it was, about discipline. Gotcha. Gotcha. And, about discipline. Gotcha. Gotcha. And, about discipline. Gotcha. Gotcha. And, then did you do university in uh in, then did you do university in uh in, then did you do university in uh in, Taiwan? No. Then then I went back. So I, Taiwan? No. Then then I went back. So I, Taiwan? No. Then then I went back. So I, did my college at MIT. Um there I, did my college at MIT. Um there I, did my college at MIT. Um there I, studied math and some computer science, studied math and some computer science, studied math and some computer science, as well. Yeah. Um but I was a late, as well. Yeah. Um but I was a late, as well. Yeah. Um but I was a late, bloomer to computer science. Yeah. I, bloomer to computer science. Yeah. I, bloomer to computer science. Yeah. I, only really started towards the end, only really started towards the end, only really started towards the end, programming towards the end of my, programming towards the end of my, programming towards the end of my, college career. One of my roommates kind, college career. One of my roommates kind, college career. One of my roommates kind, of goed me to do it and I was like, you, of goed me to do it and I was like, you, of goed me to do it and I was like, you, know, hey, you know, I think I'm going, know, hey, you know, I think I'm going, know, hey, you know, I think I'm going, to be a mathematician, but I'll try this, to be a mathematician, but I'll try this, to be a mathematician, but I'll try this, thing out. And of course, it's, thing out. And of course, it's, thing out. And of course, it's, addictive, right? For sure. Yeah. Yeah., addictive, right? For sure. Yeah. Yeah., addictive, right? For sure. Yeah. Yeah., Yeah. So, math and science were your, Yeah. So, math and science were your, Yeah. So, math and science were your, proclivities, but not not so much into, proclivities, but not not so much into, proclivities, but not not so much into, computers until you Yeah. Not not into, computers until you Yeah. Not not into, computers until you Yeah. Not not into, practical programming until later in, practical programming until later in, practical programming until later in, life. Yeah. Gotcha. Gotcha. And then and, life. Yeah. Gotcha. Gotcha. And then and, life. Yeah. Gotcha. Gotcha. And then and, then after that, you know, tell us kind, then after that, you know, tell us kind, then after that, you know, tell us kind, of what you did was your first. Yeah., of what you did was your first. Yeah., of what you did was your first. Yeah., So, my first career was in finance. It, So, my first career was in finance. It, So, my first career was in finance. It, really was a little bit of an accident, really was a little bit of an accident, really was a little bit of an accident, as well. So I thought I was going to go, as well. So I thought I was going to go, as well. So I thought I was going to go, into theoretical computer science and, into theoretical computer science and, into theoretical computer science and, then on a whim in my senior year of, then on a whim in my senior year of, then on a whim in my senior year of, college I took an internship at Gin, college I took an internship at Gin, college I took an internship at Gin, Street and it showed me kind of the, Street and it showed me kind of the, Street and it showed me kind of the, appeal of working in industry. It's very, appeal of working in industry. It's very, appeal of working in industry. It's very, pragmatic but you still have a lot of, pragmatic but you still have a lot of, pragmatic but you still have a lot of, the really exciting problems that you do, the really exciting problems that you do, the really exciting problems that you do, studying in a more self-contained kind, studying in a more self-contained kind, studying in a more self-contained kind, of academic environment. So that was, of academic environment. So that was, of academic environment. So that was, exciting to me. I spent a couple years, exciting to me. I spent a couple years, exciting to me. I spent a couple years, at a hedge fund and then a couple years, at a hedge fund and then a couple years, at a hedge fund and then a couple years, at a high frequency trading firm as a, at a high frequency trading firm as a, at a high frequency trading firm as a, partner. We talked about this once, partner. We talked about this once, partner. We talked about this once, before, but I think for the listeners, before, but I think for the listeners, before, but I think for the listeners, it'd be quite interesting because that's, it'd be quite interesting because that's, it'd be quite interesting because that's, not exactly what OpenAI does. No, not at, not exactly what OpenAI does. No, not at, not exactly what OpenAI does. No, not at, all. But there's a lot of similarities, all. But there's a lot of similarities, all. But there's a lot of similarities, in terms of just the the way of thinking, in terms of just the the way of thinking, in terms of just the the way of thinking, from a mathematics perspective from what, from a mathematics perspective from what, from a mathematics perspective from what, goes on with high frequency trading to, goes on with high frequency trading to, goes on with high frequency trading to, to AI models. What were the things that, to AI models. What were the things that, to AI models. What were the things that, helped you bridge that from the stuff, helped you bridge that from the stuff, helped you bridge that from the stuff, you had done in the finance world which, you had done in the finance world which, you had done in the finance world which, you did what for five six years or so, you did what for five six years or so, you did what for five six years or so, about five or six years to uh to open, about five or six years to uh to open, about five or six years to uh to open, AI. Yeah. So I think the biggest thing, AI. Yeah. So I think the biggest thing, AI. Yeah. So I think the biggest thing, is it teaches you rigor and, is it teaches you rigor and, is it teaches you rigor and, experimentation. So in the financial, experimentation. So in the financial, experimentation. So in the financial, markets there really is no kind of, markets there really is no kind of, markets there really is no kind of, fudging the benchmarks or anything, fudging the benchmarks or anything, fudging the benchmarks or anything, right? you have a very hard evaluation, right? you have a very hard evaluation, right? you have a very hard evaluation, which is how much money your models, which is how much money your models, which is how much money your models, generate and you really have to be, generate and you really have to be, generate and you really have to be, honest, principled, rigorous in your, honest, principled, rigorous in your, honest, principled, rigorous in your, experimentation. I think a lot of that, experimentation. I think a lot of that, experimentation. I think a lot of that, carries over to the science that we did, carries over to the science that we did, carries over to the science that we did, at OpenAI in the early days. Yeah. Were, at OpenAI in the early days. Yeah. Were, at OpenAI in the early days. Yeah. Were, traditional AI meth traditional is a, traditional AI meth traditional is a, traditional AI meth traditional is a, funny thing to say in the in such a new, funny thing to say in the in such a new, funny thing to say in the in such a new, industry, but transformer-based models, industry, but transformer-based models, industry, but transformer-based models, doing the work when you were in the, doing the work when you were in the, doing the work when you were in the, finance world or how would you kind of, finance world or how would you kind of, finance world or how would you kind of, think about neural networks relative to, think about neural networks relative to, think about neural networks relative to, the thinking world versus the the quant, the thinking world versus the the quant, the thinking world versus the the quant, financial space? Yeah. So I would model, financial space? Yeah. So I would model, financial space? Yeah. So I would model, finance as about two years behind the, finance as about two years behind the, finance as about two years behind the, state-of-the-art and in AI at any given, state-of-the-art and in AI at any given, state-of-the-art and in AI at any given, point in time. So I remember when it was, point in time. So I remember when it was, point in time. So I remember when it was, 2017 2018 the time that I was exiting, 2017 2018 the time that I was exiting, 2017 2018 the time that I was exiting, finance people there were starting to, finance people there were starting to, finance people there were starting to, catch on to neural networks they were, catch on to neural networks they were, catch on to neural networks they were, building out their first clusters and, building out their first clusters and, building out their first clusters and, yeah I was also looking into kind of, yeah I was also looking into kind of, yeah I was also looking into kind of, neural based modeling in the finance, neural based modeling in the finance, neural based modeling in the finance, world as well right and just looking now, world as well right and just looking now, world as well right and just looking now, back where so much is happening in terms, back where so much is happening in terms, back where so much is happening in terms, of obviously in the AI space we want to, of obviously in the AI space we want to, of obviously in the AI space we want to, talk about how has the finance world, talk about how has the finance world, talk about how has the finance world, picked up on that from what you've seen, picked up on that from what you've seen, picked up on that from what you've seen, yeah so they're also allin but I will, yeah so they're also allin but I will, yeah so they're also allin but I will, say one dividing line is you tend to get, say one dividing line is you tend to get, say one dividing line is you tend to get, more AGI true believers on the tech, more AGI true believers on the tech, more AGI true believers on the tech, side. Um and people on the finance side, side. Um and people on the finance side, side. Um and people on the finance side, today are still more AGI skeptical. When, today are still more AGI skeptical. When, today are still more AGI skeptical. When, you say AGI skeptical from the finance, you say AGI skeptical from the finance, you say AGI skeptical from the finance, world, what do you mean? Right. I I, world, what do you mean? Right. I I, world, what do you mean? Right. I I, think it's just straight up when you, think it's just straight up when you, think it's just straight up when you, feel like, hey, do you believe that AI, feel like, hey, do you believe that AI, feel like, hey, do you believe that AI, will fundamentally transform the shape, will fundamentally transform the shape, will fundamentally transform the shape, of the economy in 5 years? They tend to, of the economy in 5 years? They tend to, of the economy in 5 years? They tend to, have a more pessimistic feel. And why do, have a more pessimistic feel. And why do, have a more pessimistic feel. And why do, you think that is? I it's it's funny you, you think that is? I it's it's funny you, you think that is? I it's it's funny you, say that because I do find that also, say that because I do find that also, say that because I do find that also, right not finance per se but, right not finance per se but, right not finance per se but, other industries that I interact with, other industries that I interact with, other industries that I interact with, who have different either methodologies, who have different either methodologies, who have different either methodologies, for scientific research or product, for scientific research or product, for scientific research or product, development however they do that the, development however they do that the, development however they do that the, skepticism bar is a lot higher than I, skepticism bar is a lot higher than I, skepticism bar is a lot higher than I, would have intellectually anticipated, would have intellectually anticipated, would have intellectually anticipated, but in the finance world why why do you, but in the finance world why why do you, but in the finance world why why do you, think that is I can only answer for the, think that is I can only answer for the, think that is I can only answer for the, high frequency trading world where a lot, high frequency trading world where a lot, high frequency trading world where a lot, of it is extrinsic to the pure modeling., of it is extrinsic to the pure modeling., of it is extrinsic to the pure modeling., So, I really do believe that AI can, So, I really do believe that AI can, So, I really do believe that AI can, improve the modeling side of things, but, improve the modeling side of things, but, improve the modeling side of things, but, there's so much on latency. There's so, there's so much on latency. There's so, there's so much on latency. There's so, much about your private sources of data., much about your private sources of data., much about your private sources of data., So, I think there's just so many, So, I think there's just so many, So, I think there's just so many, extrinsic factors of alpha that maybe AI, extrinsic factors of alpha that maybe AI, extrinsic factors of alpha that maybe AI, and modeling itself just really isn't a, and modeling itself just really isn't a, and modeling itself just really isn't a, huge part of it yet. As I said, I run, huge part of it yet. As I said, I run, huge part of it yet. As I said, I run, into this, you know, in other industries, into this, you know, in other industries, into this, you know, in other industries, and some of the things I hear back is, and some of the things I hear back is, and some of the things I hear back is, our problem cannot be modeled. the data, our problem cannot be modeled. the data, our problem cannot be modeled. the data, sets either don't exist and or the, sets either don't exist and or the, sets either don't exist and or the, problem is a far more complex model than, problem is a far more complex model than, problem is a far more complex model than, AI or AGI could ever ever assist with., AI or AGI could ever ever assist with., AI or AGI could ever ever assist with., Did do you think that applies to the, Did do you think that applies to the, Did do you think that applies to the, thinking in the high frequency trading, thinking in the high frequency trading, thinking in the high frequency trading, world? Well, I don't know. We hear this, world? Well, I don't know. We hear this, world? Well, I don't know. We hear this, refrain over and over again. I think you, refrain over and over again. I think you, refrain over and over again. I think you, have to be in the world to really, have to be in the world to really, have to be in the world to really, believe in it. Sometimes you just have, believe in it. Sometimes you just have, believe in it. Sometimes you just have, to see the tech to start feeling the AGI, to see the tech to start feeling the AGI, to see the tech to start feeling the AGI, as we call it. And I think uh OpenAI, as we call it. And I think uh OpenAI, as we call it. And I think uh OpenAI, actually going in I would say I was, actually going in I would say I was, actually going in I would say I was, somewhat of a skeptic when it came to, somewhat of a skeptic when it came to, somewhat of a skeptic when it came to, AGI. I think much of the world was back, AGI. I think much of the world was back, AGI. I think much of the world was back, then and really just seeing the progress, then and really just seeing the progress, then and really just seeing the progress, of the model, seeing the capabilities, of the model, seeing the capabilities, of the model, seeing the capabilities, that really opens your eyes to it. Yeah., that really opens your eyes to it. Yeah., that really opens your eyes to it. Yeah., So the story as to why you joined OpenAI, So the story as to why you joined OpenAI, So the story as to why you joined OpenAI, is a cool one. Why don't you maybe share, is a cool one. Why don't you maybe share, is a cool one. Why don't you maybe share, that with folks? Yeah. Well, I think, that with folks? Yeah. Well, I think, that with folks? Yeah. Well, I think, over time it has a lot to do with, over time it has a lot to do with, over time it has a lot to do with, finance and it also has a little bit to, finance and it also has a little bit to, finance and it also has a little bit to, do with AI as well. But you know finance, do with AI as well. But you know finance, do with AI as well. But you know finance, it's I think a hard industry for someone, it's I think a hard industry for someone, it's I think a hard industry for someone, who wants to make impact and what I, who wants to make impact and what I, who wants to make impact and what I, realized having been in finance for many, realized having been in finance for many, realized having been in finance for many, years was that, years was that, years was that, the set of competitors it's the same., the set of competitors it's the same., the set of competitors it's the same., Everyone gets a little bit faster but at, Everyone gets a little bit faster but at, Everyone gets a little bit faster but at, the end of the day you're still, the end of the day you're still, the end of the day you're still, competing against the same people., competing against the same people., competing against the same people., You're still competing on the same, You're still competing on the same, You're still competing on the same, objectives and the extrinsic world, objectives and the extrinsic world, objectives and the extrinsic world, doesn't change too much for it. And I, doesn't change too much for it. And I, doesn't change too much for it. And I, felt like, you know, that wasn't a very, felt like, you know, that wasn't a very, felt like, you know, that wasn't a very, satisfying way to live out the rest of, satisfying way to live out the rest of, satisfying way to live out the rest of, my life. And it felt like I needed to, my life. And it felt like I needed to, my life. And it felt like I needed to, make some sort of change. At the same, make some sort of change. At the same, make some sort of change. At the same, time, I saw what happened with AlphaGo, time, I saw what happened with AlphaGo, time, I saw what happened with AlphaGo, and that was equally inspiring, scary, and that was equally inspiring, scary, and that was equally inspiring, scary, you know, so many feelings wrapped up in, you know, so many feelings wrapped up in, you know, so many feelings wrapped up in, one and I just felt like I had to really, one and I just felt like I had to really, one and I just felt like I had to really, get into that. So some of the first, get into that. So some of the first, get into that. So some of the first, projects I did were in reinforcement, projects I did were in reinforcement, projects I did were in reinforcement, learning just figuring out how do I, learning just figuring out how do I, learning just figuring out how do I, train these deep Q networks to play, train these deep Q networks to play, train these deep Q networks to play, Atari games and once you start taking on, Atari games and once you start taking on, Atari games and once you start taking on, some of these projects it's very, some of these projects it's very, some of these projects it's very, addictive but OpenAI in 2018 was uh very, addictive but OpenAI in 2018 was uh very, addictive but OpenAI in 2018 was uh very, different company obviously than they, different company obviously than they, different company obviously than they, are now with you know much much much, are now with you know much much much, are now with you know much much much, much smaller charter was a little bit, much smaller charter was a little bit, much smaller charter was a little bit, different I think that drew you a little, different I think that drew you a little, different I think that drew you a little, bit to to kind of what it did yeah it, bit to to kind of what it did yeah it, bit to to kind of what it did yeah it, did so I joined a nonprofit at the time, did so I joined a nonprofit at the time, did so I joined a nonprofit at the time, And in some sense you can view that as a, And in some sense you can view that as a, And in some sense you can view that as a, reaction away from finance. So you know, reaction away from finance. So you know, reaction away from finance. So you know, I felt like I was in a very, I felt like I was in a very, I felt like I was in a very, materialistic world and I wanted to do, materialistic world and I wanted to do, materialistic world and I wanted to do, something with impact and I do feel like, something with impact and I do feel like, something with impact and I do feel like, a lot of early open had that mindset of, a lot of early open had that mindset of, a lot of early open had that mindset of, we believe in transformative AI. We want, we believe in transformative AI. We want, we believe in transformative AI. We want, to bring it about to the world. We want, to bring it about to the world. We want, to bring it about to the world. We want, it to benefit humanity and that persists, it to benefit humanity and that persists, it to benefit humanity and that persists, to the leadership today. Absolutely., to the leadership today. Absolutely., to the leadership today. Absolutely., Yeah. Yeah. Now it's very clear that Sam, Yeah. Yeah. Now it's very clear that Sam, Yeah. Yeah. Now it's very clear that Sam, is a is a big believer in that. So, is a is a big believer in that. So, is a is a big believer in that. So, you've been there now seven, eight, you've been there now seven, eight, you've been there now seven, eight, years. Are you surprised at how far it's, years. Are you surprised at how far it's, years. Are you surprised at how far it's, come in seven years or do you look at it, come in seven years or do you look at it, come in seven years or do you look at it, and say you know what there's so much, and say you know what there's so much, and say you know what there's so much, more to go. I mean how do you think, more to go. I mean how do you think, more to go. I mean how do you think, about the last seven years? I think both, about the last seven years? I think both, about the last seven years? I think both, are simultaneously true. So I don't, are simultaneously true. So I don't, are simultaneously true. So I don't, think anyone could have predicted this, think anyone could have predicted this, think anyone could have predicted this, trajectory of AI. All we could do was, trajectory of AI. All we could do was, trajectory of AI. All we could do was, predict, predict, predict, kind of what we call perplexity. This is, kind of what we call perplexity. This is, kind of what we call perplexity. This is, the ability for you to model let's say, the ability for you to model let's say, the ability for you to model let's say, human language or uh a measure of, human language or uh a measure of, human language or uh a measure of, accuracy in some sense of being able to, accuracy in some sense of being able to, accuracy in some sense of being able to, model human language and you can predict, model human language and you can predict, model human language and you can predict, for a particular scale what kind of, for a particular scale what kind of, for a particular scale what kind of, accuracy you're going to get but what, accuracy you're going to get but what, accuracy you're going to get but what, you can't predict is the emerging, you can't predict is the emerging, you can't predict is the emerging, capability that falls out of getting, capability that falls out of getting, capability that falls out of getting, that level of accuracy. So, you know, that level of accuracy. So, you know, that level of accuracy. So, you know, when we got to GPD2, wasn't obvious, when we got to GPD2, wasn't obvious, when we got to GPD2, wasn't obvious, that, you know, this level of perplexity, that, you know, this level of perplexity, that, you know, this level of perplexity, would mean that you get coherent, would mean that you get coherent, would mean that you get coherent, paragraphs. And then with GPD3, uh, not, paragraphs. And then with GPD3, uh, not, paragraphs. And then with GPD3, uh, not, clear that that level of perplexity, clear that that level of perplexity, clear that that level of perplexity, would give you the ability to in context, would give you the ability to in context, would give you the ability to in context, learning. And then GPD4, you know, the, learning. And then GPD4, you know, the, learning. And then GPD4, you know, the, ability to crush all of these college, ability to crush all of these college, ability to crush all of these college, level exams. So really, it's, level exams. So really, it's, level exams. So really, it's, really inspiring to see all of the, really inspiring to see all of the, really inspiring to see all of the, emergent capabilities that come out of, emergent capabilities that come out of, emergent capabilities that come out of, the model. It's on one sense, the, the model. It's on one sense, the, the model. It's on one sense, the, scaling. And I wonder how you think, scaling. And I wonder how you think, scaling. And I wonder how you think, about this. How much of the progress or, about this. How much of the progress or, about this. How much of the progress or, scaling of the capability as you say is, scaling of the capability as you say is, scaling of the capability as you say is, a function of of breakthroughs of the, a function of of breakthroughs of the, a function of of breakthroughs of the, models versus we just have access to far, models versus we just have access to far, models versus we just have access to far, more compute and we can just throw more, more compute and we can just throw more, more compute and we can just throw more, dollars at it either whether it's chips, dollars at it either whether it's chips, dollars at it either whether it's chips, or power or whatever it is. I think this, or power or whatever it is. I think this, or power or whatever it is. I think this, was studied once and clearly both, was studied once and clearly both, was studied once and clearly both, factors are very important but I think, factors are very important but I think, factors are very important but I think, the algorithmic insights and efficiency, the algorithmic insights and efficiency, the algorithmic insights and efficiency, improvements have slightly outpaced the, improvements have slightly outpaced the, improvements have slightly outpaced the, compute contributions and can you say a, compute contributions and can you say a, compute contributions and can you say a, little bit more about without giving, little bit more about without giving, little bit more about without giving, away any kind of no secret sauce to be, away any kind of no secret sauce to be, away any kind of no secret sauce to be, given away here but anything just that, given away here but anything just that, given away here but anything just that, would give the indication is where the, would give the indication is where the, would give the indication is where the, algorithms have just gotten smarter, algorithms have just gotten smarter, algorithms have just gotten smarter, right right so I think today you know, right right so I think today you know, right right so I think today you know, there's a sweeping generalization of we, there's a sweeping generalization of we, there's a sweeping generalization of we, use transformers to train language, use transformers to train language, use transformers to train language, models But transformers themselves have, models But transformers themselves have, models But transformers themselves have, evolved a lot over time too. And I can, evolved a lot over time too. And I can, evolved a lot over time too. And I can, talk about some early work you know uh, talk about some early work you know uh, talk about some early work you know uh, we evolved the attention patterns of, we evolved the attention patterns of, we evolved the attention patterns of, transformers. So I did some work early, transformers. So I did some work early, transformers. So I did some work early, on with Ruan at OpenAI about factorizing, on with Ruan at OpenAI about factorizing, on with Ruan at OpenAI about factorizing, attention and that that's an efficiency, attention and that that's an efficiency, attention and that that's an efficiency, gain. There are other subtle things too, gain. There are other subtle things too, gain. There are other subtle things too, I think where you do normalization and, I think where you do normalization and, I think where you do normalization and, transformers how you set up the aspect, transformers how you set up the aspect, transformers how you set up the aspect, ratios. All of those things are things, ratios. All of those things are things, ratios. All of those things are things, that you have to figure out and be very, that you have to figure out and be very, that you have to figure out and be very, careful about. Is it in Transformers, careful about. Is it in Transformers, careful about. Is it in Transformers, till the end of time or do you think we, till the end of time or do you think we, till the end of time or do you think we, get where there's an S-curve where where, get where there's an S-curve where where, get where there's an S-curve where where, Transformers run out of runway and, Transformers run out of runway and, Transformers run out of runway and, there's something next? It may be, there's something next? It may be, there's something next? It may be, possible that something takes over but I, possible that something takes over but I, possible that something takes over but I, think the longer that transformers are, think the longer that transformers are, think the longer that transformers are, here and the longer that they remain, here and the longer that they remain, here and the longer that they remain, dominant the more we co-design around, dominant the more we co-design around, dominant the more we co-design around, them. So we will build trips that are, them. So we will build trips that are, them. So we will build trips that are, efficient there. They become the, efficient there. They become the, efficient there. They become the, benchmarks right and we will build, benchmarks right and we will build, benchmarks right and we will build, kernels for them. So it just the bar, kernels for them. So it just the bar, kernels for them. So it just the bar, keeps getting higher for something to, keeps getting higher for something to, keeps getting higher for something to, overtake transformers and it's hard to, overtake transformers and it's hard to, overtake transformers and it's hard to, see that in are we there already? I I, see that in are we there already? I I, see that in are we there already? I I, because I do I do wonder to your point, because I do I do wonder to your point, because I do I do wonder to your point, of the the model has been established, of the the model has been established, of the the model has been established, hardware architectures you know morph to, hardware architectures you know morph to, hardware architectures you know morph to, it scientists know it and you you you, it scientists know it and you you you, it scientists know it and you you you, may have this this bias that starts to, may have this this bias that starts to, may have this this bias that starts to, run in say if everything is, run in say if everything is, run in say if everything is, transformer-based in terms of how I, transformer-based in terms of how I, transformer-based in terms of how I, develop the next data sets and models, develop the next data sets and models, develop the next data sets and models, that's how it's going to get done. Yeah, that's how it's going to get done. Yeah, that's how it's going to get done. Yeah, I think transformers, they're popular, I think transformers, they're popular, I think transformers, they're popular, because they're a really good balance of, because they're a really good balance of, because they're a really good balance of, simple and expressive at the same time., simple and expressive at the same time., simple and expressive at the same time., So, they get all of the mixing, So, they get all of the mixing, So, they get all of the mixing, primitives that you need, a highly, primitives that you need, a highly, primitives that you need, a highly, expressive mixing primitive, but they're, expressive mixing primitive, but they're, expressive mixing primitive, but they're, also very simple, which allows you to, also very simple, which allows you to, also very simple, which allows you to, scale it and engineer it in a fairly, scale it and engineer it in a fairly, scale it and engineer it in a fairly, straightforward way without too much, straightforward way without too much, straightforward way without too much, gymnastics. So, I think uh it's a very, gymnastics. So, I think uh it's a very, gymnastics. So, I think uh it's a very, well suited architecture. Yeah, I don't, well suited architecture. Yeah, I don't, well suited architecture. Yeah, I don't, know how much you you interface with, know how much you you interface with, know how much you you interface with, potential clients, but do you hear the, potential clients, but do you hear the, potential clients, but do you hear the, safety thing increasing now given with, safety thing increasing now given with, safety thing increasing now given with, the capability of, you know, certainly, the capability of, you know, certainly, the capability of, you know, certainly, 4.5 and 03 and Yeah, I I think so. And, 4.5 and 03 and Yeah, I I think so. And, 4.5 and 03 and Yeah, I I think so. And, you know, today is a world where we're, you know, today is a world where we're, you know, today is a world where we're, moving towards AI with connectors. So, moving towards AI with connectors. So, moving towards AI with connectors. So, these are AI models that can plug into, these are AI models that can plug into, these are AI models that can plug into, your email, your Google Docs, your, your email, your Google Docs, your, your email, your Google Docs, your, Slack. And I think that poses real, Slack. And I think that poses real, Slack. And I think that poses real, risks. People today are fairly good at, risks. People today are fairly good at, risks. People today are fairly good at, jailbreaking models to if there's a very, jailbreaking models to if there's a very, jailbreaking models to if there's a very, motivated attacker. So what is the, motivated attacker. So what is the, motivated attacker. So what is the, implication? Right? You could imagine, implication? Right? You could imagine, implication? Right? You could imagine, that someone motivated extracts all that, that someone motivated extracts all that, that someone motivated extracts all that, information away from you or they're, information away from you or they're, information away from you or they're, able to launch some kind of coordinated, able to launch some kind of coordinated, able to launch some kind of coordinated, attack. So right. So so then literally, attack. So right. So so then literally, attack. So right. So so then literally, at the source code level you could just, at the source code level you could just, at the source code level you could just, simply put things inside the model that, simply put things inside the model that, simply put things inside the model that, when when those queries were requested, when when those queries were requested, when when those queries were requested, be rejected. Right. Yeah. So I think, be rejected. Right. Yeah. So I think, be rejected. Right. Yeah. So I think, there's even the possibility you allude, there's even the possibility you allude, there's even the possibility you allude, to where if there's a bad faith model, to where if there's a bad faith model, to where if there's a bad faith model, developer um they could create a a model, developer um they could create a a model, developer um they could create a a model, and bake in certain behaviors into into, and bake in certain behaviors into into, and bake in certain behaviors into into, weights where there's some kind of, weights where there's some kind of, weights where there's some kind of, trigger for for that happening. Yeah., trigger for for that happening. Yeah., trigger for for that happening. Yeah., No, I I I it's interesting because um I, No, I I I it's interesting because um I, No, I I I it's interesting because um I, remember attending the very first AI, remember attending the very first AI, remember attending the very first AI, safety summit. This was gosh almost two, safety summit. This was gosh almost two, safety summit. This was gosh almost two, years ago and there was a lot of talk on, years ago and there was a lot of talk on, years ago and there was a lot of talk on, it then and I and maybe it's just the, it then and I and maybe it's just the, it then and I and maybe it's just the, circles I'm moving in. I haven't heard, circles I'm moving in. I haven't heard, circles I'm moving in. I haven't heard, as much on it even though the models, as much on it even though the models, as much on it even though the models, have progressed uh incredibly since, have progressed uh incredibly since, have progressed uh incredibly since, then. So that that that makes a that, then. So that that that makes a that, then. So that that that makes a that, makes a ton of sense. You've done a lot, makes a ton of sense. You've done a lot, makes a ton of sense. You've done a lot, of work I know yourself on on multimodal, of work I know yourself on on multimodal, of work I know yourself on on multimodal, and that's yet another yet extremely, and that's yet another yet extremely, and that's yet another yet extremely, cool frontier. Are the architectures, cool frontier. Are the architectures, cool frontier. Are the architectures, today well suited for multimodal in, today well suited for multimodal in, today well suited for multimodal in, terms of it's a big data problem? Right., terms of it's a big data problem? Right., terms of it's a big data problem? Right., The data sets are are really gigantic., The data sets are are really gigantic., The data sets are are really gigantic., Back to the transformer piece. Just talk, Back to the transformer piece. Just talk, Back to the transformer piece. Just talk, a little bit about multimodals and and, a little bit about multimodals and and, a little bit about multimodals and and, where where you think that goes., where where you think that goes., where where you think that goes., Absolutely. Yeah. This is a topic near, Absolutely. Yeah. This is a topic near, Absolutely. Yeah. This is a topic near, and dear to my heart because one of the, and dear to my heart because one of the, and dear to my heart because one of the, first projects I did was trying to apply, first projects I did was trying to apply, first projects I did was trying to apply, transformer architectures to multimodal, transformer architectures to multimodal, transformer architectures to multimodal, data sets. So one of the big papers that, data sets. So one of the big papers that, data sets. So one of the big papers that, I'm still very proud of today is called, I'm still very proud of today is called, I'm still very proud of today is called, image GPT and that was a proof of, image GPT and that was a proof of, image GPT and that was a proof of, concept that you could do image, concept that you could do image, concept that you could do image, generation using the same text, generation using the same text, generation using the same text, transformer stack, right? And all you, transformer stack, right? And all you, transformer stack, right? And all you, have to do is view images as a language, have to do is view images as a language, have to do is view images as a language, in this very special vocabulary of, in this very special vocabulary of, in this very special vocabulary of, pixels. And I think at the time you know, pixels. And I think at the time you know, pixels. And I think at the time you know, it was you had different architectures, it was you had different architectures, it was you had different architectures, like GANs or VAS that generated images, like GANs or VAS that generated images, like GANs or VAS that generated images, and you use transformers for text. And I, and you use transformers for text. And I, and you use transformers for text. And I, think the importance of proving out this, think the importance of proving out this, think the importance of proving out this, approach is it paved the path for, approach is it paved the path for, approach is it paved the path for, something like dolly right where when, something like dolly right where when, something like dolly right where when, you have image generation you want it to, you have image generation you want it to, you have image generation you want it to, be steerable image generation. So you, be steerable image generation. So you, be steerable image generation. So you, want text to be the language by which, want text to be the language by which, want text to be the language by which, you specify the image you want. And in, you specify the image you want. And in, you specify the image you want. And in, that world, if you have a different, that world, if you have a different, that world, if you have a different, architecture for text and images, it's, architecture for text and images, it's, architecture for text and images, it's, just not satisfying, right? You would, just not satisfying, right? You would, just not satisfying, right? You would, want to be able to just throw your all, want to be able to just throw your all, want to be able to just throw your all, of your data into the same model and, of your data into the same model and, of your data into the same model and, train it to be able to output the image., train it to be able to output the image., train it to be able to output the image., So, since then, we've expanded on that, So, since then, we've expanded on that, So, since then, we've expanded on that, idea and created 40. And this was a, idea and created 40. And this was a, idea and created 40. And this was a, model we launched last year. And it, model we launched last year. And it, model we launched last year. And it, really showed the strength of a fully, really showed the strength of a fully, really showed the strength of a fully, multimodal integrated approach where you, multimodal integrated approach where you, multimodal integrated approach where you, just throw audio, images, video, text, just throw audio, images, video, text, just throw audio, images, video, text, all at the same model and you can get, all at the same model and you can get, all at the same model and you can get, you know, really emotive speech, right?, you know, really emotive speech, right?, you know, really emotive speech, right?, You can get images like the image, You can get images like the image, You can get images like the image, generation launch that we just did which, generation launch that we just did which, generation launch that we just did which, super that was so fun. Super super super, super that was so fun. Super super super, super that was so fun. Super super super, cool. But it also seemed like it's a and, cool. But it also seemed like it's a and, cool. But it also seemed like it's a and, I guess if you're in the world of, I guess if you're in the world of, I guess if you're in the world of, selling power or selling data centers or, selling power or selling data centers or, selling power or selling data centers or, selling chips a good thing because the, selling chips a good thing because the, selling chips a good thing because the, data set just explodes in in that world., data set just explodes in in that world., data set just explodes in in that world., Right. Right. Yeah. I think there's so, Right. Right. Yeah. I think there's so, Right. Right. Yeah. I think there's so, much intelligence locked up in, much intelligence locked up in, much intelligence locked up in, multimodal data and just the ability to, multimodal data and just the ability to, multimodal data and just the ability to, expand your data set by orders of, expand your data set by orders of, expand your data set by orders of, magnitude through that and be able to, magnitude through that and be able to, magnitude through that and be able to, try to figure out how to unlock that is, try to figure out how to unlock that is, try to figure out how to unlock that is, important. One of the things that when I, important. One of the things that when I, important. One of the things that when I, again when I talk to researchers in, again when I talk to researchers in, again when I talk to researchers in, different fields and different areas, different fields and different areas, different fields and different areas, back to this problem's too hard for AI, back to this problem's too hard for AI, back to this problem's too hard for AI, AGI to solve when you think about real, AGI to solve when you think about real, AGI to solve when you think about real, world problems whether it's around chip, world problems whether it's around chip, world problems whether it's around chip, design whether it's around, design whether it's around, design whether it's around, pharmaceutical research whether it's, pharmaceutical research whether it's, pharmaceutical research whether it's, around drug discovery link linked to, around drug discovery link linked to, around drug discovery link linked to, that where where are areas that you look, that where where are areas that you look, that where where are areas that you look, at and say, at and say, at and say, these are really really tough problems, these are really really tough problems, these are really really tough problems, that we're not there yet but we can get, that we're not there yet but we can get, that we're not there yet but we can get, there Right. So I think everything above, there Right. So I think everything above, there Right. So I think everything above, that you mentioned falls in that class., that you mentioned falls in that class., that you mentioned falls in that class., And to back up there, this is one of the, And to back up there, this is one of the, And to back up there, this is one of the, big motivations of us working on, big motivations of us working on, big motivations of us working on, reasoning. So our reasoning models, reasoning. So our reasoning models, reasoning. So our reasoning models, today, they give us this hammer where we, today, they give us this hammer where we, today, they give us this hammer where we, can take smaller amounts of data and, can take smaller amounts of data and, can take smaller amounts of data and, efficiently learn on a smaller amount of, efficiently learn on a smaller amount of, efficiently learn on a smaller amount of, data to get the same level of, data to get the same level of, data to get the same level of, capability. So many of these verticals, capability. So many of these verticals, capability. So many of these verticals, like you mentioned, they're not going to, like you mentioned, they're not going to, like you mentioned, they're not going to, have as much data as the whole internet., have as much data as the whole internet., have as much data as the whole internet., And you need a technique that allows you, And you need a technique that allows you, And you need a technique that allows you, to productively spend compute learning, to productively spend compute learning, to productively spend compute learning, on that data. And that's what reasoning, on that data. And that's what reasoning, on that data. And that's what reasoning, gives us. It gives us a tool for doing, gives us. It gives us a tool for doing, gives us. It gives us a tool for doing, that. So we're actually very excited for, that. So we're actually very excited for, that. So we're actually very excited for, the possibility of models to get very, the possibility of models to get very, the possibility of models to get very, specialized in these areas. We've, specialized in these areas. We've, specialized in these areas. We've, already seen that with things like math, already seen that with things like math, already seen that with things like math, and computer science, right? These, and computer science, right? These, and computer science, right? These, models are so good at solving math, models are so good at solving math, models are so good at solving math, problems right now and so good at, you, problems right now and so good at, you, problems right now and so good at, you, know, coding up very difficult, know, coding up very difficult, know, coding up very difficult, algorithms. And I think a lot of these, algorithms. And I think a lot of these, algorithms. And I think a lot of these, techniques can be adapted to things like, techniques can be adapted to things like, techniques can be adapted to things like, drug discovery, like you say, right? Are, drug discovery, like you say, right? Are, drug discovery, like you say, right? Are, they good at invention? On one level, they good at invention? On one level, they good at invention? On one level, they're awfully good at solving problems, they're awfully good at solving problems, they're awfully good at solving problems, that are bounded problems. Yes. Right., that are bounded problems. Yes. Right., that are bounded problems. Yes. Right., Where the the answer is known or there, Where the the answer is known or there, Where the the answer is known or there, isn't there is an answer that you can, isn't there is an answer that you can, isn't there is an answer that you can, get to. But what about areas where there, get to. But what about areas where there, get to. But what about areas where there, isn't an answer today, invention being a, isn't an answer today, invention being a, isn't an answer today, invention being a, broad term for that. So I have the, broad term for that. So I have the, broad term for that. So I have the, slightly controversial claim that, slightly controversial claim that, slightly controversial claim that, they're better at invention than we, they're better at invention than we, they're better at invention than we, think. And I, think. And I, think. And I, the reason I think that is, you know, the reason I think that is, you know, the reason I think that is, you know, we've entered these models into some of, we've entered these models into some of, we've entered these models into some of, the hardest algorithms competitions in, the hardest algorithms competitions in, the hardest algorithms competitions in, the world. And you know, I have a lot of, the world. And you know, I have a lot of, the world. And you know, I have a lot of, experience in these competitions., experience in these competitions., experience in these competitions., They're often designed to be, They're often designed to be, They're often designed to be, anti-pattern problems. Basically, what, anti-pattern problems. Basically, what, anti-pattern problems. Basically, what, makes a good problem is you can't fit it, makes a good problem is you can't fit it, makes a good problem is you can't fit it, to a set of known techniques, right?, to a set of known techniques, right?, to a set of known techniques, right?, Otherwise, all the contestants are going, Otherwise, all the contestants are going, Otherwise, all the contestants are going, to know how to solve it, right? So what, to know how to solve it, right? So what, to know how to solve it, right? So what, we find is often times these models, we find is often times these models, we find is often times these models, surpass our expectations on these more, surpass our expectations on these more, surpass our expectations on these more, ad hoc like you have to come up with, ad hoc like you have to come up with, ad hoc like you have to come up with, something that really doesn't fit any, something that really doesn't fit any, something that really doesn't fit any, pattern. And it it does really surprise, pattern. And it it does really surprise, pattern. And it it does really surprise, me in in in some of these problems. It, me in in in some of these problems. It, me in in in some of these problems. It, can be very creative in in in spots, can be very creative in in in spots, can be very creative in in in spots, where you don't expect it to be. And I, where you don't expect it to be. And I, where you don't expect it to be. And I, think you do speak to a good gap though., think you do speak to a good gap though., think you do speak to a good gap though., There is some sense in which, There is some sense in which, There is some sense in which, they are models which take tasks and, they are models which take tasks and, they are models which take tasks and, then give you responses to tasks and you, then give you responses to tasks and you, then give you responses to tasks and you, would ideally love them to propose tasks, would ideally love them to propose tasks, would ideally love them to propose tasks, and have taste in some sense. Um those, and have taste in some sense. Um those, and have taste in some sense. Um those, kind of things are hard you know can, kind of things are hard you know can, kind of things are hard you know can, they be solved and and how much of that, they be solved and and how much of that, they be solved and and how much of that, is we need more data andor, is we need more data andor, is we need more data andor, are models in terms of how the human, are models in terms of how the human, are models in terms of how the human, brain invents based upon having either, brain invents based upon having either, brain invents based upon having either, not seen something or been exposed to, not seen something or been exposed to, not seen something or been exposed to, something. Right. Right. And I think, something. Right. Right. And I think, something. Right. Right. And I think, today models probably already do have a, today models probably already do have a, today models probably already do have a, sense for, sense for, sense for, what intuitively is, you know, aesthetic, what intuitively is, you know, aesthetic, what intuitively is, you know, aesthetic, to a human, right? Um, and I think it, to a human, right? Um, and I think it, to a human, right? Um, and I think it, can leverage that to figure out, can leverage that to figure out, can leverage that to figure out, hypotheses that, you know, would be, hypotheses that, you know, would be, hypotheses that, you know, would be, interesting to humans as well. Yeah. So, interesting to humans as well. Yeah. So, interesting to humans as well. Yeah. So, I think it probably has this latent, I think it probably has this latent, I think it probably has this latent, notion of what innovation looks like, notion of what innovation looks like, notion of what innovation looks like, but we should just figure out how to tap, but we should just figure out how to tap, but we should just figure out how to tap, into that. Yeah. That's always thing, into that. Yeah. That's always thing, into that. Yeah. That's always thing, I've thought about with with AGI, you, I've thought about with with AGI, you, I've thought about with with AGI, you, know, if I make it analogous to to a, know, if I make it analogous to to a, know, if I make it analogous to to a, human brain where where the AI today is, human brain where where the AI today is, human brain where where the AI today is, incredible given enough data and enough, incredible given enough data and enough, incredible given enough data and enough, time, it'll figure out any problem. Yet, time, it'll figure out any problem. Yet, time, it'll figure out any problem. Yet, humans aren't always exposed to, humans aren't always exposed to, humans aren't always exposed to, everything, right? Yet somehow we figure, everything, right? Yet somehow we figure, everything, right? Yet somehow we figure, out paths and ways to learn things, out paths and ways to learn things, out paths and ways to learn things, right? Having actually never been, right? Having actually never been, right? Having actually never been, exposed to the entire data set. And to, exposed to the entire data set. And to, exposed to the entire data set. And to, me that to some extent, everyone's got, me that to some extent, everyone's got, me that to some extent, everyone's got, their own kind of weird definition of, their own kind of weird definition of, their own kind of weird definition of, AGI. To me that is a bit of AGI is is is, AGI. To me that is a bit of AGI is is is, AGI. To me that is a bit of AGI is is is, being able to learn and invent without, being able to learn and invent without, being able to learn and invent without, actually having all the data fit into, actually having all the data fit into, actually having all the data fit into, it. Absolutely. And and that's the way, it. Absolutely. And and that's the way, it. Absolutely. And and that's the way, we're going right. It's like uh we're, we're going right. It's like uh we're, we're going right. It's like uh we're, developing more and more data efficient, developing more and more data efficient, developing more and more data efficient, algorithms where you're learning how to, algorithms where you're learning how to, algorithms where you're learning how to, reason and draw insights from less and, reason and draw insights from less and, reason and draw insights from less and, less data. I think one challenge though, less data. I think one challenge though, less data. I think one challenge though, that I've personally reflected on for a, that I've personally reflected on for a, that I've personally reflected on for a, while is how much of invention is, while is how much of invention is, while is how much of invention is, interpolation?, interpolation?, interpolation?, And, And, And, I think it's actually a higher fraction, I think it's actually a higher fraction, I think it's actually a higher fraction, than than we'd think. You know, uh, than than we'd think. You know, uh, than than we'd think. You know, uh, having seen the math world for a while, having seen the math world for a while, having seen the math world for a while, actually a lot of very cool results are, actually a lot of very cool results are, actually a lot of very cool results are, you know, you take one person who's a, you know, you take one person who's a, you know, you take one person who's a, geometer or some person who's an, geometer or some person who's an, geometer or some person who's an, algebraist and, you know, they link, algebraist and, you know, they link, algebraist and, you know, they link, together some patterns that they've, together some patterns that they've, together some patterns that they've, discovered in their own fields and and, discovered in their own fields and and, discovered in their own fields and and, and they bring it together. And I I, and they bring it together. And I I, and they bring it together. And I I, think maybe there's a lot less true pure, think maybe there's a lot less true pure, think maybe there's a lot less true pure, innovation than we think. Can AGI, innovation than we think. Can AGI, innovation than we think. Can AGI, replace or augment entrepreneurship?, replace or augment entrepreneurship?, replace or augment entrepreneurship?, Great question. So I think it, Great question. So I think it, Great question. So I think it, accelerates entrepreneurship and, accelerates entrepreneurship and, accelerates entrepreneurship and, in the sense that I think if we really, in the sense that I think if we really, in the sense that I think if we really, do coding models right we create some, do coding models right we create some, do coding models right we create some, sort of interface where a human doesn't, sort of interface where a human doesn't, sort of interface where a human doesn't, have to learn how to code to produce, have to learn how to code to produce, have to learn how to code to produce, something that they can ship to the, something that they can ship to the, something that they can ship to the, world right um if you can say hey I want, world right um if you can say hey I want, world right um if you can say hey I want, to build an app that connects riders to, to build an app that connects riders to, to build an app that connects riders to, drivers right that app can just get, drivers right that app can just get, drivers right that app can just get, built you know the the model thinks for, built you know the the model thinks for, built you know the the model thinks for, a long time it makes it robust and, a long time it makes it robust and, a long time it makes it robust and, deploys it to the, deploys it to the, deploys it to the, So many industries have have been washed, So many industries have have been washed, So many industries have have been washed, out by technology advancements and, out by technology advancements and, out by technology advancements and, there's always the doomsayers who say, there's always the doomsayers who say, there's always the doomsayers who say, this is going to eliminate jobs etc etc., this is going to eliminate jobs etc etc., this is going to eliminate jobs etc etc., Stenographers and typewriter tools for, Stenographers and typewriter tools for, Stenographers and typewriter tools for, example that that were replaced. Coders, example that that were replaced. Coders, example that that were replaced. Coders, are a different species obviously. Um, are a different species obviously. Um, are a different species obviously. Um, and there's one axiom that says the, and there's one axiom that says the, and there's one axiom that says the, efficiency of these models will generate, efficiency of these models will generate, efficiency of these models will generate, ability for more coders versus another, ability for more coders versus another, ability for more coders versus another, aim that says five years from now we, aim that says five years from now we, aim that says five years from now we, won't need as many as we've got today., won't need as many as we've got today., won't need as many as we've got today., where where do you lie on that on that?, where where do you lie on that on that?, where where do you lie on that on that?, I mean, I just think there's a lot of, I mean, I just think there's a lot of, I mean, I just think there's a lot of, demand from services that isn't met and, demand from services that isn't met and, demand from services that isn't met and, AI will be a point of leverage for, AI will be a point of leverage for, AI will be a point of leverage for, people, for professionals especially, people, for professionals especially, people, for professionals especially, right? They're going to be able to be 2x, right? They're going to be able to be 2x, right? They're going to be able to be 2x, more productive or 3x more productive, more productive or 3x more productive, more productive or 3x more productive, and service that many more people. I, and service that many more people. I, and service that many more people. I, think it'll drive the cost down, but, think it'll drive the cost down, but, think it'll drive the cost down, but, maybe the demand is there at a lower, maybe the demand is there at a lower, maybe the demand is there at a lower, cost, right? So, I think it could be, cost, right? So, I think it could be, cost, right? So, I think it could be, different for different industries, but, different for different industries, but, different for different industries, but, I do think there's a lot of demand out, I do think there's a lot of demand out, I do think there's a lot of demand out, there given a cheap enough cost. That's, there given a cheap enough cost. That's, there given a cheap enough cost. That's, kind of what I I think too. I mean, kind of what I I think too. I mean, kind of what I I think too. I mean, we're we're in a a bubble from the, we're we're in a a bubble from the, we're we're in a a bubble from the, standpoint of where we live physically, standpoint of where we live physically, standpoint of where we live physically, and the world that revolves around AI, and the world that revolves around AI, and the world that revolves around AI, that is Silicon Valley. So much of the, that is Silicon Valley. So much of the, that is Silicon Valley. So much of the, world yet still has a long ways to go to, world yet still has a long ways to go to, world yet still has a long ways to go to, embrace technology, let alone uh AI. But, embrace technology, let alone uh AI. But, embrace technology, let alone uh AI. But, it's the the the speed at which this is, it's the the the speed at which this is, it's the the the speed at which this is, moving is is just it's just amazing. I, moving is is just it's just amazing. I, moving is is just it's just amazing. I, mean, just looking at just your tools, mean, just looking at just your tools, mean, just looking at just your tools, your deep research tools and your, your deep research tools and your, your deep research tools and your, reasoning tools, the answers are not, reasoning tools, the answers are not, reasoning tools, the answers are not, they're not textbooks anymore. They're, they're not textbooks anymore. They're, they're not textbooks anymore. They're, succinct. you're actually talking to a, succinct. you're actually talking to a, succinct. you're actually talking to a, to a human being. Yeah, absolutely. I, to a human being. Yeah, absolutely. I, to a human being. Yeah, absolutely. I, feel like uh really the bar for deep, feel like uh really the bar for deep, feel like uh really the bar for deep, research is hours of economically useful, research is hours of economically useful, research is hours of economically useful, work and I think it lives up to that., work and I think it lives up to that., work and I think it lives up to that., We've gotten testimonials from people in, We've gotten testimonials from people in, We've gotten testimonials from people in, biology for instance who say when it, biology for instance who say when it, biology for instance who say when it, comes to drug discovery I have a panel, comes to drug discovery I have a panel, comes to drug discovery I have a panel, of scientists and having them in a room, of scientists and having them in a room, of scientists and having them in a room, for a couple of hours they produce, for a couple of hours they produce, for a couple of hours they produce, similar analysis as the model. So I, similar analysis as the model. So I, similar analysis as the model. So I, think it really is exciting that we can, think it really is exciting that we can, think it really is exciting that we can, do that kind of work. If you think about, do that kind of work. If you think about, do that kind of work. If you think about, the next number of years, what are the, the next number of years, what are the, the next number of years, what are the, things that are in the industry's way, things that are in the industry's way, things that are in the industry's way, not open eyes, in the industry's way, not open eyes, in the industry's way, not open eyes, in the industry's way, that said, gosh, if we had more blank, that said, gosh, if we had more blank, that said, gosh, if we had more blank, and it's not GP, you GPU is not a valid, and it's not GP, you GPU is not a valid, and it's not GP, you GPU is not a valid, answer here. If we if we had if we had, answer here. If we if we had if we had, answer here. If we if we had if we had, more blank, um, we would be able to go a, more blank, um, we would be able to go a, more blank, um, we would be able to go a, lot faster. Honestly, I think for now, lot faster. Honestly, I think for now, lot faster. Honestly, I think for now, we need a lot more researchers and, we need a lot more researchers and, we need a lot more researchers and, ideas. Right now is such a fruitful time, ideas. Right now is such a fruitful time, ideas. Right now is such a fruitful time, to be doing research. I think we're, to be doing research. I think we're, to be doing research. I think we're, limited just by the number of ideas we, limited just by the number of ideas we, limited just by the number of ideas we, can come up with. Like you said it, can come up with. Like you said it, can come up with. Like you said it, before, if we could get the models to, before, if we could get the models to, before, if we could get the models to, help automate that and help accelerate, help automate that and help accelerate, help automate that and help accelerate, that, that would be phenomenal. But we, that, that would be phenomenal. But we, that, that would be phenomenal. But we, need people to come up with ideas, need people to come up with ideas, need people to come up with ideas, implement ideas. But I do think another, implement ideas. But I do think another, implement ideas. But I do think another, big thing is embodiment. Um, what do you, big thing is embodiment. Um, what do you, big thing is embodiment. Um, what do you, mean by embodiment? Right. Right. So we, mean by embodiment? Right. Right. So we, mean by embodiment? Right. Right. So we, have a product called operator and what, have a product called operator and what, have a product called operator and what, it does is it's a computer using agent, it does is it's a computer using agent, it does is it's a computer using agent, meaning it takes as input computer, meaning it takes as input computer, meaning it takes as input computer, screens and as output emits keyboard, screens and as output emits keyboard, screens and as output emits keyboard, strokes or it emits click actions and, strokes or it emits click actions and, strokes or it emits click actions and, you can think of it as it's an interface, you can think of it as it's an interface, you can think of it as it's an interface, to your digital work or your digital, to your digital work or your digital, to your digital work or your digital, life right and when you think about the, life right and when you think about the, life right and when you think about the, future the extension of that is robotics, future the extension of that is robotics, future the extension of that is robotics, right like uh essentially you're, right like uh essentially you're, right like uh essentially you're, building an AI brain for a robot which, building an AI brain for a robot which, building an AI brain for a robot which, can act in the real world and I think, can act in the real world and I think, can act in the real world and I think, there you know you'll have bottlenecks, there you know you'll have bottlenecks, there you know you'll have bottlenecks, around how quickly can we make the, around how quickly can we make the, around how quickly can we make the, hardware work. Do you think agents, hardware work. Do you think agents, hardware work. Do you think agents, become everything over time and we don't, become everything over time and we don't, become everything over time and we don't, really have apps we don't really have, really have apps we don't really have, really have apps we don't really have, operating systems in the classic sense, operating systems in the classic sense, operating systems in the classic sense, today in terms of you have to pull, today in terms of you have to pull, today in terms of you have to pull, information out from a lot of different, information out from a lot of different, information out from a lot of different, sources to get the answers. You think we, sources to get the answers. You think we, sources to get the answers. You think we, get to a world where it's just an agent, get to a world where it's just an agent, get to a world where it's just an agent, that exists somewhere? Absolutely. I, that exists somewhere? Absolutely. I, that exists somewhere? Absolutely. I, would love to have an agent where you, would love to have an agent where you, would love to have an agent where you, just query for all the information that, just query for all the information that, just query for all the information that, you need. It should just be behind this, you need. It should just be behind this, you need. It should just be behind this, layer, right? And you don't have to deal, layer, right? And you don't have to deal, layer, right? And you don't have to deal, with it. I think operator really does, with it. I think operator really does, with it. I think operator really does, fulfill that promise if it works. And, fulfill that promise if it works. And, fulfill that promise if it works. And, you ask, hey, you know, what what is, you ask, hey, you know, what what is, you ask, hey, you know, what what is, this information? It can check your, this information? It can check your, this information? It can check your, Gmail. It can and it can operate through, Gmail. It can and it can operate through, Gmail. It can and it can operate through, any kind of interface you use in a, any kind of interface you use in a, any kind of interface you use in a, computer and and does it need to be a, computer and and does it need to be a, computer and and does it need to be a, computer? In other words, can it be kind, computer? In other words, can it be kind, computer? In other words, can it be kind, of anything moving? One of the movies I, of anything moving? One of the movies I, of anything moving? One of the movies I, love to watch are the Back to the Future, love to watch are the Back to the Future, love to watch are the Back to the Future, movies, which just in in one sense, a, movies, which just in in one sense, a, movies, which just in in one sense, a, lot of things are wrong, but there are a, lot of things are wrong, but there are a, lot of things are wrong, but there are a, lot of things that are rather clever., lot of things that are rather clever., lot of things that are rather clever., And in Back to the Future 2, there's a, And in Back to the Future 2, there's a, And in Back to the Future 2, there's a, scene where Marty McFly comes into his, scene where Marty McFly comes into his, scene where Marty McFly comes into his, house and as he moves from room to room, house and as he moves from room to room, house and as he moves from room to room, the the appliances in the room know the, the the appliances in the room know the, the the appliances in the room know the, context, right? And they're either, context, right? And they're either, context, right? And they're either, making his meal or they're turning on, making his meal or they're turning on, making his meal or they're turning on, the news or they're getting his boss on, the news or they're getting his boss on, the news or they're getting his boss on, a video Zoom call, which by the way, a, a video Zoom call, which by the way, a, a video Zoom call, which by the way, a, video Zoom call that they were showing, video Zoom call that they were showing, video Zoom call that they were showing, in the 1980s. Do you could you see a, in the 1980s. Do you could you see a, in the 1980s. Do you could you see a, world where these agents are suddenly, world where these agents are suddenly, world where these agents are suddenly, just now intelligent running kind of, just now intelligent running kind of, just now intelligent running kind of, everywhere and back to your point it's, everywhere and back to your point it's, everywhere and back to your point it's, all kind of hidden underneath the hood?, all kind of hidden underneath the hood?, all kind of hidden underneath the hood?, I think they should be. Yeah. And you, I think they should be. Yeah. And you, I think they should be. Yeah. And you, can imagine we have a model in the cloud, can imagine we have a model in the cloud, can imagine we have a model in the cloud, right it's your open AI agent and all, right it's your open AI agent and all, right it's your open AI agent and all, these things are plugged into it right, these things are plugged into it right, these things are plugged into it right, and so they can understand the context, and so they can understand the context, and so they can understand the context, as you go from one place to another., as you go from one place to another., as you go from one place to another., Yeah, you are, you know, on a personal, Yeah, you are, you know, on a personal, Yeah, you are, you know, on a personal, professional level working at the, professional level working at the, professional level working at the, hottest company in this space and in one, hottest company in this space and in one, hottest company in this space and in one, of the hottest times in this space. What, of the hottest times in this space. What, of the hottest times in this space. What, is it like? Do you pinch yourself and, is it like? Do you pinch yourself and, is it like? Do you pinch yourself and, say, "Oh my god, I can't believe I'm, say, "Oh my god, I can't believe I'm, say, "Oh my god, I can't believe I'm, actually in the middle of all this.", actually in the middle of all this.", actually in the middle of all this.", Yeah. Every day, I mean, it's it's a, Yeah. Every day, I mean, it's it's a, Yeah. Every day, I mean, it's it's a, great privilege to work at OpenAI. You, great privilege to work at OpenAI. You, great privilege to work at OpenAI. You, know, I started as a resident actually, know, I started as a resident actually, know, I started as a resident actually, at OpenAI. And what that means is, at OpenAI. And what that means is, at OpenAI. And what that means is, someone who wasn't a PhD in the field, someone who wasn't a PhD in the field, someone who wasn't a PhD in the field, right? And I'm grateful Iliad took a bet, right? And I'm grateful Iliad took a bet, right? And I'm grateful Iliad took a bet, on me back then and he trained me up in, on me back then and he trained me up in, on me back then and he trained me up in, machine learning and it's completely, machine learning and it's completely, machine learning and it's completely, unpredictable, you know. Um, and I I'm, unpredictable, you know. Um, and I I'm, unpredictable, you know. Um, and I I'm, just so grateful. Yeah. No, it's uh it's, just so grateful. Yeah. No, it's uh it's, just so grateful. Yeah. No, it's uh it's, exciting to watch and you know, having, exciting to watch and you know, having, exciting to watch and you know, having, been around Silicon Valley my whole, been around Silicon Valley my whole, been around Silicon Valley my whole, career and watching these shifts from, career and watching these shifts from, career and watching these shifts from, PCs to internet to mobile phones, seeing, PCs to internet to mobile phones, seeing, PCs to internet to mobile phones, seeing, what's going on here is it's it's a, what's going on here is it's it's a, what's going on here is it's it's a, thrill to be part of. Absolutely. Mark, thrill to be part of. Absolutely. Mark, thrill to be part of. Absolutely. Mark, Chen, thank you for shleing all the way, Chen, thank you for shleing all the way, Chen, thank you for shleing all the way, down to San Jose from San Francisco and, down to San Jose from San Francisco and, down to San Jose from San Francisco and, and joining us today. Really enjoyed it., and joining us today. Really enjoyed it., and joining us today. Really enjoyed it., Absolutely. Me, too. Thanks so much for, Absolutely. Me, too. Thanks so much for, Absolutely. Me, too. Thanks so much for, having me. Yeah., having me. Yeah., having me. Yeah., [Music], [Music], [Music], Thanks for listening to this month's, Thanks for listening to this month's, Thanks for listening to this month's, episode of Tech Unheard. We'll be back, episode of Tech Unheard. We'll be back, episode of Tech Unheard. We'll be back, next month for another look behind the, next month for another look behind the, next month for another look behind the, boardroom door. To be sure you don't, boardroom door. To be sure you don't, boardroom door. To be sure you don't, miss new episodes, follow Tech Unheard, miss new episodes, follow Tech Unheard, miss new episodes, follow Tech Unheard, wherever you get your podcasts. Until, wherever you get your podcasts. Until, wherever you get your podcasts. Until, then, Tech Unheard is a custom podcast, then, Tech Unheard is a custom podcast, then, Tech Unheard is a custom podcast, series from ARM and National Public, series from ARM and National Public, series from ARM and National Public, Media. And I'm ARM CEO Renee Hos. Thanks, Media. And I'm ARM CEO Renee Hos. Thanks, Media. And I'm ARM CEO Renee Hos. Thanks, for listening to Tech Unheard., for listening to Tech Unheard., for listening to Tech Unheard., ARM Techch Unheard is a custom podcast, ARM Techch Unheard is a custom podcast, ARM Techch Unheard is a custom podcast, series from ARM and National Public, series from ARM and National Public, series from ARM and National Public, Media. Executive producers Erica Oer and, Media. Executive producers Erica Oer and, Media. Executive producers Erica Oer and, Shannon Burner. Project manager Colin, Shannon Burner. Project manager Colin, Shannon Burner. Project manager Colin, Harden. Creative lead producer Isabelle, Harden. Creative lead producer Isabelle, Harden. Creative lead producer Isabelle, Robertson. Editors Andrew Merryweather, Robertson. Editors Andrew Merryweather, Robertson. Editors Andrew Merryweather, and Kelly Drake. Composer Aaron Leon., and Kelly Drake. Composer Aaron Leon., and Kelly Drake. Composer Aaron Leon., Arm production contributors include Ami, Arm production contributors include Ami, Arm production contributors include Ami, Badani, Claudia Brandon, Simon Jared, Badani, Claudia Brandon, Simon Jared, Badani, Claudia Brandon, Simon Jared, Jonathan Armstrong, Ben Webbdell, Sophia, Jonathan Armstrong, Ben Webbdell, Sophia, Jonathan Armstrong, Ben Webbdell, Sophia, McKenzie, Kristen Ray, and Saul Shaw., McKenzie, Kristen Ray, and Saul Shaw., McKenzie, Kristen Ray, and Saul Shaw., Tech Unheard is hosted by ARM chief, Tech Unheard is hosted by ARM chief, Tech Unheard is hosted by ARM chief, executive officer Renee Hos.
