Timestamp: 2026-08-15T22:09:11.347823
Title: Opus 5 vs Kimi K3: 5 Games, $2,300 vs $400
URL: https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=7qwq6aFVhK8
Status: success
Duration: 11:40

Description:
以下是对该视频文本的结构化解构、同行评审以及概念映射图谱。

---

### PART 1. Author's Map（作者地图）

#### 1. Core Thesis（核心论点）
在利用 AI 智能体自主循环（Gauntlet Loop）进行复杂三维/二维游戏开发的长程任务中，Kimmy K 3 凭借极高性价比（总成本 $400 vs $2,300）以及在物理反馈和可玩性上的优秀表现，综合表现击败了 Claude Opus 5。

#### 2. Evidentiary Base（论据基础）
*   **硬数据（Hard Data）**：5 项游戏开发任务的耗时与 API 消耗费用（如滑雪游戏 Kimmy 消耗 $38 / 耗时 3.5h vs Opus 消耗 $723 / 耗时 5.3h；总账单 Kimmy $400 vs Opus $2,300）。
*   **案例对比（Examples）**：
    1.  *赛艇游戏*：Kimmy 漂移加速机制更佳，配色符合 Prompt；Opus 左右操作反向，HUD 冗余。
    2.  *滑雪游戏*：Opus 视觉更贴近参考图；Kimmy 摄像机跟随与落体反馈更佳，成本低 19 倍。
    3.  *山谷走廊*：Opus 胜在水体、光照、音效细节与环境氛围（$224 vs $58）。
    4.  *超跑展厅*：Kimmy 多边形数量更合理且视角正常；Opus 多边形过载（21.5万）且光照爆框。
    5.  *星际飞船*：Opus 的跃迁特效与异星植被视觉惊艳；Kimmy 在交互可用性（可煮咖啡、屏幕功能正常）和运行稳定性上占优。
*   **直觉与观察（Intuition & Observation）**：Opus 倾向于“过度堆砌细节但导致视觉/交互障碍”；Kimmy 倾向于“精简结构但保障核心逻辑可运行”。

#### 3. Logical Warrant（逻辑推导路径）
采用**多案例归纳与对照试验**（Induction from cases）：
*   *前提 1*：对两款模型施加完全相同的提示词（Prompt）、时间限制与迭代评估工作流（Gauntlet Loop）。
*   *前提 2*：在 5 轮不同复杂度的开发测试中，Kimmy 在 3 轮中综合玩法体验胜出，1 轮平手/各有千秋，成本仅为 Opus 的 17%。
*   *结论*：对于复杂开发与长程工程任务，Kimmy K 3 是比 Opus 5 更优秀且性价比极高的选择。

#### 4. Stated Scope（声明边界）
*   **比较对象**：比较的是“全流程智能体工作流”（Claude Code vs Kimmy Code + Gold/Swarm Mode），而非单纯的模型 API 裸输出。
*   **成本计算方式**：Opus 成本基于订阅费换算的理论 API 价格；Kimmy 为实际扣费账单。
*   **限制与偏差**：滑雪游戏中 Kimmy 误设为“High effort”而非“Max effort”；无任何外部 3D 模型或纹理输入，全部由纯代码（Math/Shader）实时生成。

#### 5. Implicit Opponent（隐性对手）
“Claude Opus 5 是 AI 代码生成领域不可撼动的绝对霸主，其高昂的 Token 消费必然对应着其他模型无法企及的最高交付质量”这一行业共识。

#### 6. Intended Takeaway（预期行动）
引导开发者在复杂代码/游戏生成场景中尝试 Kimmy K 3，并使用其推广链接进行消费（享受新用户首购 15% 优惠）。

---

### PART 2. Hostile-But-Very-Fair REVIEW（严苛但客观的同行评审）

#### 1. Steelman（强化论点）
撇开赞助因素不谈，Kimmy K 3 在长程任务（Long-horizon tasks）中的控制力确实令人瞩目。在多 Agent 并行开发（Swarm Mode）与自审循环中，Kimmy 展现出了对“可交互性与游戏性”的良好偏好，避免了大型模型常见的“视觉过拟合”与“冗余代码死循环”。以不到 Opus 1/5 的成本交付了可玩性更高的游戏，其工程实用价值毋庸置疑。

#### 2. Weakest Link（最薄弱环节）
> *"Opus ran on my Claude subscription, so its numbers are what it would have cost on the API. Kimmy's numbers are my actual bill."*

**破裂点分析**：成本对比基准完全失效。评测使用了**理论推算的 Opus API 价格**对比**包含商业折扣/赞助计费规则的 Kimmy 实际账单**。更重要的是，两者的 Agent 运行框架（Claude Code vs Kimmy Code）并不透明且可能存在极大的 Prompt / System Overhead 差异。如果成本差异来自于框架层的 Token 浪费（例如 Opus Code 框架发散了过多无效子 Agent），则结论将归咎于“Agent 框架性能”而非“模型本身代码能力”。

#### 3. Evidence Audit（证据审查）
*   **选择性宽容（双重标准）**：Kimmy 在山谷游戏中出现了“前后左右四个方向全部反向”的致命操作 Bug，且在赛艇游戏中出现“赛道线渐变消失”；但作者对 Kimmy 的操作 Bug 轻轻带过（甚至归结为“增加了游戏难度”），而对 Opus 的“按键无反应”、“左右反向”则直接判定为工程失败。
*   **赞助商利益冲突**：视频明确标注由 Moonshot AI 赞助。虽然作者声称此前就想测试，但在主观体验评判（如“觉得 Kimmy 的手部挥舞动作很搞笑/加分”）中，很难完全排除认知偏见。

#### 4. Hidden Premises（隐藏前提）
*   **假设 1**：Critic Agent（批评者代理）的评价标准在两套系统中是等价且客观的。但实际上，Critic Agent 本身的提问方式和裁决阈值可能极大地影响了循环次数与 Token 消耗。
*   **假设 2**：“好玩”是由模型对 Prompt 的理解决定的，而不是随机参数碰撞的结果。AI 在生成 HTML5/WebGL 物理引擎时，摄像机算法的偶然成功并不代表模型具备对“游戏手感”的深刻认知。

#### 5. The Blind Side（盲区）
*   **代码工程质量与可维护性**：评测完全聚焦于“最终渲染与可玩性”，忽略了生成的纯代码（Pure Code）架构。Opus 生成的 21.5 万多边形超跑虽然爆框，但可能包含了更完善的渲染管线或模块化类结构；Kimmy 生成的代码是否是难以维护的“硬编码黑盒”（Spaghetti Code），文中未作任何静态代码检查。
*   **崩溃率与稳定性**：星际飞船项目中，Opus 发生了多次游戏冻结与黑框闪烁，但 Kimmy 入座驾驶舱时也直接导致了游戏冻结（后续通过人工 Prompt 手动修复）。两者的原生生成稳定性其实半斤八两。

#### 6. One Hit Kill（一击致命的问题）
如果脱离各自私有的 Code Agent 框架，在统一的开源 Agent 平台（如 LangGraph）下，使用完全相同的 Token 计费标准与相同的 Critic 系统，Kimmy K 3 还能在排除商业补贴后，维持其“成本低 19 倍且质量反超”的结论吗？

#### 7. What Would Settle It（如何最终裁决）
*   **开源测试套件**：公开 5 个项目的完整生成代码库与日志（Logs）。
*   **静态代码与性能基准（Benchmark）**：由第三方对生成的代码进行抽象语法树（AST）分析、重构难度评估、帧率（FPS）与内存占用测试。
*   **双盲玩家测试（Double-Blind Playtest）**：将隐藏了模型标签的 10 款游戏交付给 50 名真实玩家进行体验评分（操控性、视觉、趣味性），以客观统计数据取代主观口述。

---

### PART 3. Conceptual Map（概念映射图谱）

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    subgraph SG_Core["💡 核心主题: Claude Opus 5 vs Kimmy K 3 游戏开发生成测评"]
        A["<b>大模型自主编程对比</b><br/>Gauntlet Loop 架构下的 5 项游戏生成实验"]
        style A fill:#FFFACD,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:3px,color:#333
    end

    subgraph SG_AuthorMap["🟢 作者地图 (Author's Map)"]
        direction TB
        Thesis["<b>核心论点</b><br/>Kimmy K 3 在可玩性与成本上综合战胜 Opus 5<br/>($400 vs $2,300)"]:::authorNode
        
        subgraph SG_Games["🎮 5项测试案例与结果"]
            G1["<b>1. 赛艇游戏</b><br/>Kimmy 胜 (漂移更佳/成本低)"]:::gameNode
            G2["<b>2. 滑雪游戏</b><br/>Kimmy 胜 (摄像机跟随好/便宜19倍)"]:::gameNode
            G3["<b>3. 画风山谷</b><br/>Opus 胜 (水体/音效/氛围极佳)"]:::gameNode
            G4["<b>4. 跑车展厅</b><br/>Kimmy 胜 (多边形合理/相机可用)"]:::gameNode
            G5["<b>5. 星际飞船</b><br/>各有千秋 (Opus视觉震撼/Kimmy可交互性强)"]:::gameNode
        end

        Ev_Data["<b>硬数据支持</b><br/>Opus 耗资 $2,300 | Kimmy 耗资 $400<br/>最高单项成本相差 19 倍"]:::authorNode
        Logic["<b>推导逻辑</b><br/>控制变量(Prompt/Loop) => 多项目对照 => 得出性价比与手感结论"]:::authorNode
        
        Thesis --> SG_Games
        SG_Games --> Ev_Data
        Ev_Data --> Logic
    end

    subgraph SG_HostileReview["🚩 严苛评审 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review)"]
        direction TB
        Steelman["<b>强化论点 (Steelman)</b><br/>Kimmy 在长程任务中展现了对核心玩法逻辑的优先控制力，避免了视觉过拟合"]:::reviewNode
        
        WeakLink["<b>最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)</b><br/>成本基准不对等: 理论 API 预估 vs 折扣扣费账单<br/>Agent 框架差异掩盖了底层模型真实消耗"]:::critiqueNode
        
        Audit["<b>证据审查 (Evidence Audit)</b><br/>赞助商利益冲突 (Moonshot AI 赞助)<br/>对 Kimmy 致命操控反向 Bug 存在偏见宽容"]:::critiqueNode
        
        BlindSide["<b>盲区与忽略 (The Blind Side)</b><br/>未分析代码结构与可维护性<br/>纯代码渲染缺乏静态工程质量评估"]:::critiqueNode
        
        KillQuestion["<b>一击致命提问 (One Hit Kill)</b><br/>若在统一开源 Agent 框架与相同 Token 计费下，Kimmy 还能保持成本与质量优势吗？"]:::killNode
        
        Settlement["<b>如何裁决 (What Would Settle It)</b><br/>开源代码日志 + 静态代码 AST 分析 + 玩家双盲测试"]:::settleNode

        Steelman --> WeakLink
        WeakLink --> Audit
        Audit --> BlindSide
        BlindSide --> KillQuestion
        KillQuestion --> Settlement
    end

    A --> SG_AuthorMap
    A --> SG_HostileReview

    %% 交叉关联 (Cross Connections)
    Ev_Data -. "成本真实性被质疑" .-> WeakLink
    G1 & G2 -. "评价标准存在双标" .-> Audit
    G5 -. "忽略代码崩溃与结构" .-> BlindSide

    %% Styles Definition
    classDef authorNode fill:#E1F5FE,stroke:#0288D1,stroke-width:2px,color:#01579B
    classDef gameNode fill:#E0F2F1,stroke:#00897B,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#004D40
    classDef reviewNode fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#388E3C,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20
    classDef critiqueNode fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#D32F2F,stroke-width:2px,color:#B71C1C
    classDef killNode fill:#FFF3E0,stroke:#F57C00,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#E65100
    classDef settleNode fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#7B1FA2,stroke-width:2px,color:#4A148C

    %% Subgraph Styles
    style SG_Core fill:#FFFDE7,stroke:#FBC02D,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_AuthorMap fill:#F0F4C3,stroke:#AFB42B,stroke-width:2px,color:#33691E
    style SG_Games fill:#DCEDC8,stroke:#689F38,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#33691E
    style SG_HostileReview fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#FF5252,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#B71C1C
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
Claude Opus 5 versus Kimmy K 3., Claude Opus 5 versus Kimmy K 3., Everybody's been saying how amazing, Everybody's been saying how amazing, Everybody's been saying how amazing, these two models are, so I'm excited to, these two models are, so I'm excited to, these two models are, so I'm excited to, finally put them head-to-head. In this, finally put them head-to-head. In this, finally put them head-to-head. In this, video, I had them build five different, video, I had them build five different, video, I had them build five different, games, and both AIs get the exact same, games, and both AIs get the exact same, games, and both AIs get the exact same, prompt every time. For the final game, I, prompt every time. For the final game, I, prompt every time. For the final game, I, gave them 12 hours each, and Opus burned, gave them 12 hours each, and Opus burned, gave them 12 hours each, and Opus burned, through over a thousand dollars worth of, through over a thousand dollars worth of, through over a thousand dollars worth of, tokens on that one game alone. Across, tokens on that one game alone. Across, tokens on that one game alone. Across, everything, Opus came out to about, everything, Opus came out to about, everything, Opus came out to about, $2,300. Kimmy built all five games for, $2,300. Kimmy built all five games for, $2,300. Kimmy built all five games for, about 400, and Kimmy K3's results really, about 400, and Kimmy K3's results really, about 400, and Kimmy K3's results really, surprised me. This video is sponsored by, surprised me. This video is sponsored by, surprised me. This video is sponsored by, Moonshot AI, the company behind Kimmy, Moonshot AI, the company behind Kimmy, Moonshot AI, the company behind Kimmy, K3, and honestly, wanting to try this, K3, and honestly, wanting to try this, K3, and honestly, wanting to try this, model out anyways. I keep hearing it's, model out anyways. I keep hearing it's, model out anyways. I keep hearing it's, really good at making games. Opus ran on, really good at making games. Opus ran on, really good at making games. Opus ran on, my Claude subscription, so its numbers, my Claude subscription, so its numbers, my Claude subscription, so its numbers, are what it would have cost on the API., are what it would have cost on the API., are what it would have cost on the API., Kimmy's numbers are my actual bill. And, Kimmy's numbers are my actual bill. And, Kimmy's numbers are my actual bill. And, shout out to Remake Bench, whose video, shout out to Remake Bench, whose video, shout out to Remake Bench, whose video, inspired me to do a true side-by-side, inspired me to do a true side-by-side, inspired me to do a true side-by-side, comparison like this. First up, an, comparison like this. First up, an, comparison like this. First up, an, arcade boat racing game. The prompt, arcade boat racing game. The prompt, arcade boat racing game. The prompt, asked for cell-shaded anime-style water, asked for cell-shaded anime-style water, asked for cell-shaded anime-style water, boats that could actually ride the, boats that could actually ride the, boats that could actually ride the, waves, drifting and boosting, and three, waves, drifting and boosting, and three, waves, drifting and boosting, and three, AI racers that each have their own, AI racers that each have their own, AI racers that each have their own, personality. The idea in the original, personality. The idea in the original, personality. The idea in the original, prompt for this game come from this guy, prompt for this game come from this guy, prompt for this game come from this guy, Hello Viom, on Twitter. I saw it, Hello Viom, on Twitter. I saw it, Hello Viom, on Twitter. I saw it, thought it looked awesome, and had to, thought it looked awesome, and had to, thought it looked awesome, and had to, try it myself. His prompt is what's, try it myself. His prompt is what's, try it myself. His prompt is what's, called a gauntlet loop, a style created, called a gauntlet loop, a style created, called a gauntlet loop, a style created, by Matt Schumer. It demands a finished, by Matt Schumer. It demands a finished, by Matt Schumer. It demands a finished, beautiful, playable game at the quality, beautiful, playable game at the quality, beautiful, playable game at the quality, a AAA studio would ship. And the AI has, a AAA studio would ship. And the AI has, a AAA studio would ship. And the AI has, to screenshot its own game while a harsh, to screenshot its own game while a harsh, to screenshot its own game while a harsh, critic agent reviews those screenshots., critic agent reviews those screenshots., critic agent reviews those screenshots., It loops, fixing what the critic names, It loops, fixing what the critic names, It loops, fixing what the critic names, until the critic can't find anything, until the critic can't find anything, until the critic can't find anything, left to complain about. Every game in, left to complain about. Every game in, left to complain about. Every game in, this video runs that same loop. Claude, this video runs that same loop. Claude, this video runs that same loop. Claude, ran it in Claude code, and Kimmy ran it, ran it in Claude code, and Kimmy ran it, ran it in Claude code, and Kimmy ran it, in Kimmy code with gold mode and swarm, in Kimmy code with gold mode and swarm, in Kimmy code with gold mode and swarm, mode on. Both fan out sub-agents to, mode on. Both fan out sub-agents to, mode on. Both fan out sub-agents to, build each part of the game in parallel, build each part of the game in parallel, build each part of the game in parallel, which means I'm comparing the full, which means I'm comparing the full, which means I'm comparing the full, workflows here, not just the raw models., workflows here, not just the raw models., workflows here, not just the raw models., Opus finished in about 5 hours and cost, Opus finished in about 5 hours and cost, Opus finished in about 5 hours and cost, $317., $317., $317., Kimmy took almost 15 hours and cost, Kimmy took almost 15 hours and cost, Kimmy took almost 15 hours and cost, $140. They were not lying that Kimmy K3, $140. They were not lying that Kimmy K3, $140. They were not lying that Kimmy K3, is made for long-horizon tasks. It ran, is made for long-horizon tasks. It ran, is made for long-horizon tasks. It ran, seven critic rounds on the ocean alone., seven critic rounds on the ocean alone., seven critic rounds on the ocean alone., Both AIs kept writing the same warning, Both AIs kept writing the same warning, Both AIs kept writing the same warning, in their reports, "No human has ever, in their reports, "No human has ever, in their reports, "No human has ever, heard the audio." It was funny how, heard the audio." It was funny how, heard the audio." It was funny how, seriously they both kept flagging it., seriously they both kept flagging it., seriously they both kept flagging it., Anyways, both games look genuinely good., Anyways, both games look genuinely good., Anyways, both games look genuinely good., Opus called its game Inkquake, Kimmy, Opus called its game Inkquake, Kimmy, Opus called its game Inkquake, Kimmy, went with Swell Racers. Opus had the, went with Swell Racers. Opus had the, went with Swell Racers. Opus had the, classic AI problem, left and right were, classic AI problem, left and right were, classic AI problem, left and right were, backwards. Kimmy's boat was really fun, backwards. Kimmy's boat was really fun, backwards. Kimmy's boat was really fun, once I figured out the drifting. It's, once I figured out the drifting. It's, once I figured out the drifting. It's, like Mario Kart, you hold a drift and, like Mario Kart, you hold a drift and, like Mario Kart, you hold a drift and, get a boost when you release it. To get, get a boost when you release it. To get, get a boost when you release it. To get, Opus boost, you charge it by driving in, Opus boost, you charge it by driving in, Opus boost, you charge it by driving in, the middle lane and then just hold space, the middle lane and then just hold space, the middle lane and then just hold space, and you have it, which felt really, and you have it, which felt really, and you have it, which felt really, boring compared to earning it off a, boring compared to earning it off a, boring compared to earning it off a, drift. The riders are actually animated, drift. The riders are actually animated, drift. The riders are actually animated, too. They lean into the turns and brace, too. They lean into the turns and brace, too. They lean into the turns and brace, forward when you slam down off a wave., forward when you slam down off a wave., forward when you slam down off a wave., It feels really responsive. And when you, It feels really responsive. And when you, It feels really responsive. And when you, win in Kimmy's game, your guy waves his, win in Kimmy's game, your guy waves his, win in Kimmy's game, your guy waves his, hand in celebration, which was hilarious, hand in celebration, which was hilarious, hand in celebration, which was hilarious, to me. Opus packs more detail into its, to me. Opus packs more detail into its, to me. Opus packs more detail into its, HUD, lap times, your position, the gap, HUD, lap times, your position, the gap, HUD, lap times, your position, the gap, to the racer next to you. I like the lap, to the racer next to you. I like the lap, to the racer next to you. I like the lap, times and its turn indicator placement, times and its turn indicator placement, times and its turn indicator placement, is a little better than Kimmy's, but, is a little better than Kimmy's, but, is a little better than Kimmy's, but, overall it's a bit busy and I would like, overall it's a bit busy and I would like, overall it's a bit busy and I would like, it to be more minimal. And I think this, it to be more minimal. And I think this, it to be more minimal. And I think this, might be a theme for the whole video., might be a theme for the whole video., might be a theme for the whole video., Opus adds more details, but some of them, Opus adds more details, but some of them, Opus adds more details, but some of them, don't really make sense, like how the, don't really make sense, like how the, don't really make sense, like how the, rider is just straddling the boat, rider is just straddling the boat, rider is just straddling the boat, awkwardly. I like Kimmy's colors better, awkwardly. I like Kimmy's colors better, awkwardly. I like Kimmy's colors better, they feel more fitting for the anime, they feel more fitting for the anime, they feel more fitting for the anime, style, where Opus looked more muted. And, style, where Opus looked more muted. And, style, where Opus looked more muted. And, the prompt literally asked for a high, the prompt literally asked for a high, the prompt literally asked for a high, saturation palette with anime energy, so, saturation palette with anime energy, so, saturation palette with anime energy, so, Kimmy just stuck to the prompt better, Kimmy just stuck to the prompt better, Kimmy just stuck to the prompt better, here. But I don't love that in Kimmy's, here. But I don't love that in Kimmy's, here. But I don't love that in Kimmy's, the racing line fades out as you ride up, the racing line fades out as you ride up, the racing line fades out as you ride up, on it. And I'd say I like Opus water and, on it. And I'd say I like Opus water and, on it. And I'd say I like Opus water and, cloud slightly more, but they're very, cloud slightly more, but they're very, cloud slightly more, but they're very, comparable. If I kept building on these, comparable. If I kept building on these, comparable. If I kept building on these, I'd add obstacles, items, tricks off the, I'd add obstacles, items, tricks off the, I'd add obstacles, items, tricks off the, waves, flips, more maps. I guess, waves, flips, more maps. I guess, waves, flips, more maps. I guess, basically turn it into a water Mario, basically turn it into a water Mario, basically turn it into a water Mario, Kart. So, round one, both games look, Kart. So, round one, both games look, Kart. So, round one, both games look, amazing, but at less than half the price, amazing, but at less than half the price, amazing, but at less than half the price, and more fun to drive, this one goes to, and more fun to drive, this one goes to, and more fun to drive, this one goes to, Kimmy, even though it took three times, Kimmy, even though it took three times, Kimmy, even though it took three times, as long. Next up is a snowboarding game, as long. Next up is a snowboarding game, as long. Next up is a snowboarding game, and this time I changed two things. I, and this time I changed two things. I, and this time I changed two things. I, gave them a reference image from this, gave them a reference image from this, gave them a reference image from this, clip that went viral on Twitter, which I, clip that went viral on Twitter, which I, clip that went viral on Twitter, which I, thought looked really cool. I wasn't, thought looked really cool. I wasn't, thought looked really cool. I wasn't, sure if this was a real game or an AI, sure if this was a real game or an AI, sure if this was a real game or an AI, video, so I wanted to try and make it, video, so I wanted to try and make it, video, so I wanted to try and make it, myself. And since Kimmy took 15 hours on, myself. And since Kimmy took 15 hours on, myself. And since Kimmy took 15 hours on, the boat game, I wanted to see what it, the boat game, I wanted to see what it, the boat game, I wanted to see what it, could do with a shorter time. And to be, could do with a shorter time. And to be, could do with a shorter time. And to be, honest, I didn't want to spend a whole, honest, I didn't want to spend a whole, honest, I didn't want to spend a whole, week just making the games for this, week just making the games for this, week just making the games for this, video. So, this time both AIs get a hard, video. So, this time both AIs get a hard, video. So, this time both AIs get a hard, time budget, 7 hours. Opus took 5 hours, time budget, 7 hours. Opus took 5 hours, time budget, 7 hours. Opus took 5 hours, and 17 minutes, $723. Now, for Kimmy, I, and 17 minutes, $723. Now, for Kimmy, I, and 17 minutes, $723. Now, for Kimmy, I, accidentally ran it on high effort, accidentally ran it on high effort, accidentally ran it on high effort, instead of max. It took 3 and 1/2 hours, instead of max. It took 3 and 1/2 hours, instead of max. It took 3 and 1/2 hours, and only cost $38. That's 19 times, and only cost $38. That's 19 times, and only cost $38. That's 19 times, cheaper than Opus 5. Opus clearly looks, cheaper than Opus 5. Opus clearly looks, cheaper than Opus 5. Opus clearly looks, closer to the reference, especially the, closer to the reference, especially the, closer to the reference, especially the, guy on the snowboard, and carving an, guy on the snowboard, and carving an, guy on the snowboard, and carving an, edge is genuinely satisfying. Kimmy's, edge is genuinely satisfying. Kimmy's, edge is genuinely satisfying. Kimmy's, version is a little darker and grayer, version is a little darker and grayer, version is a little darker and grayer, and emptier. There's a wide abyss in the, and emptier. There's a wide abyss in the, and emptier. There's a wide abyss in the, midground, and the mountains aren't as, midground, and the mountains aren't as, midground, and the mountains aren't as, good. The trees also visually disappear, good. The trees also visually disappear, good. The trees also visually disappear, as you ride up on them, but their, as you ride up on them, but their, as you ride up on them, but their, collision stays, so sometimes you crash, collision stays, so sometimes you crash, collision stays, so sometimes you crash, into invisible trees trying to remember, into invisible trees trying to remember, into invisible trees trying to remember, where they were, which does make for a, where they were, which does make for a, where they were, which does make for a, more difficult game, I guess. I'm sure, more difficult game, I guess. I'm sure, more difficult game, I guess. I'm sure, that'd be a quick one-prompt few-minute, that'd be a quick one-prompt few-minute, that'd be a quick one-prompt few-minute, fix, though. Despite all of that, fix, though. Despite all of that, fix, though. Despite all of that, Kimmy's game is more fun. You pick up, Kimmy's game is more fun. You pick up, Kimmy's game is more fun. You pick up, speed fast, and you catch an edge riding, speed fast, and you catch an edge riding, speed fast, and you catch an edge riding, side to side, and the height you get off, side to side, and the height you get off, side to side, and the height you get off, jumps feels really cool. In Opus' game, jumps feels really cool. In Opus' game, jumps feels really cool. In Opus' game, if you try to spin off a jump, the, if you try to spin off a jump, the, if you try to spin off a jump, the, camera completely loses you. You can't, camera completely loses you. You can't, camera completely loses you. You can't, ride the snowboard backwards, either, or, ride the snowboard backwards, either, or, ride the snowboard backwards, either, or, any other way. It always snaps you back, any other way. It always snaps you back, any other way. It always snaps you back, to facing forward. And you crash really, to facing forward. And you crash really, to facing forward. And you crash really, easily, with no feedback at all. You're, easily, with no feedback at all. You're, easily, with no feedback at all. You're, just left guessing what you did wrong., just left guessing what you did wrong., just left guessing what you did wrong., Kimmy's camera actually follows your, Kimmy's camera actually follows your, Kimmy's camera actually follows your, spins. You can ride backwards, and when, spins. You can ride backwards, and when, spins. You can ride backwards, and when, you crash, it tells you the exact angle, you crash, it tells you the exact angle, you crash, it tells you the exact angle, you landed at, so you know what you did, you landed at, so you know what you did, you landed at, so you know what you did, wrong. And the snow spray coming off the, wrong. And the snow spray coming off the, wrong. And the snow spray coming off the, board looks great in both games. Kimmy's, board looks great in both games. Kimmy's, board looks great in both games. Kimmy's, left and right were backwards, though, left and right were backwards, though, left and right were backwards, though, same as Opus' boat. So, for this round, same as Opus' boat. So, for this round, same as Opus' boat. So, for this round, Opus wins on looks, Kimmy wins on fun., Opus wins on looks, Kimmy wins on fun., Opus wins on looks, Kimmy wins on fun., And Kimmy did that on high effort while, And Kimmy did that on high effort while, And Kimmy did that on high effort while, literally being 19 times cheaper. For, literally being 19 times cheaper. For, literally being 19 times cheaper. For, the next game, I gave them this, the next game, I gave them this, the next game, I gave them this, reference image. It's from a very viral, reference image. It's from a very viral, reference image. It's from a very viral, tweet of an AI video. It's this, tweet of an AI video. It's this, tweet of an AI video. It's this, painterly pixel art style, like an old, painterly pixel art style, like an old, painterly pixel art style, like an old, hand-painted animation background. I, hand-painted animation background. I, hand-painted animation background. I, really like the look of it. I wanted to, really like the look of it. I wanted to, really like the look of it. I wanted to, see if I could make it into a real game., see if I could make it into a real game., see if I could make it into a real game., This time, a 4-hour limit. And honestly, This time, a 4-hour limit. And honestly, This time, a 4-hour limit. And honestly, I'm pretty happy with how the look, I'm pretty happy with how the look, I'm pretty happy with how the look, turned out. It's not as good as the AI, turned out. It's not as good as the AI, turned out. It's not as good as the AI, video, but both of them landed on a, video, but both of them landed on a, video, but both of them landed on a, really interesting art style that could, really interesting art style that could, really interesting art style that could, be fine-tuned into something great. It's, be fine-tuned into something great. It's, be fine-tuned into something great. It's, just so cool that you can take any image, just so cool that you can take any image, just so cool that you can take any image, or video, and then be walking around, or video, and then be walking around, or video, and then be walking around, inside a real game version of it. The, inside a real game version of it. The, inside a real game version of it. The, goal of the game is to walk the path, goal of the game is to walk the path, goal of the game is to walk the path, down the valley and light seven beacons, down the valley and light seven beacons, down the valley and light seven beacons, along the way, all the way to the castle, along the way, all the way to the castle, along the way, all the way to the castle, gate. And funny enough, both games did, gate. And funny enough, both games did, gate. And funny enough, both games did, the same tricky thing. They put the very, the same tricky thing. They put the very, the same tricky thing. They put the very, first beacon behind you when you spawn, first beacon behind you when you spawn, first beacon behind you when you spawn, in. Also, the torches turned out great, in. Also, the torches turned out great, in. Also, the torches turned out great, in both games. I love how those look., in both games. I love how those look., in both games. I love how those look., Opus finished in under 2 hours. It, Opus finished in under 2 hours. It, Opus finished in under 2 hours. It, decided its fixes were just trading one, decided its fixes were just trading one, decided its fixes were just trading one, defect for another, so it stopped. $224., defect for another, so it stopped. $224., defect for another, so it stopped. $224., Kimmy took about 2 hours as well, $58., Kimmy took about 2 hours as well, $58., Kimmy took about 2 hours as well, $58., Opus wins the visuals here. The river, Opus wins the visuals here. The river, Opus wins the visuals here. The river, water looks a lot better, the torch and, water looks a lot better, the torch and, water looks a lot better, the torch and, sword, too. Even the embers floating, sword, too. Even the embers floating, sword, too. Even the embers floating, through the forest on the way up to the, through the forest on the way up to the, through the forest on the way up to the, castle, everything is a little better, castle, everything is a little better, castle, everything is a little better, and more detailed. This is the game, and more detailed. This is the game, and more detailed. This is the game, where Opus extra details actually worked, where Opus extra details actually worked, where Opus extra details actually worked, for it. The audio, too. The birdsong is, for it. The audio, too. The birdsong is, for it. The audio, too. The birdsong is, genuinely lovely and the thunder sounds, genuinely lovely and the thunder sounds, genuinely lovely and the thunder sounds, great. It even changed the footsteps, great. It even changed the footsteps, great. It even changed the footsteps, sounds for every single surface, grass, sounds for every single surface, grass, sounds for every single surface, grass, wood, stone. Some of it was a little, wood, stone. Some of it was a little, wood, stone. Some of it was a little, funny and extra, but you can just tell, funny and extra, but you can just tell, funny and extra, but you can just tell, this model likes to put in a lot of, this model likes to put in a lot of, this model likes to put in a lot of, detail. The sprint is janky though. It, detail. The sprint is janky though. It, detail. The sprint is janky though. It, bounces you up and down like crazy., bounces you up and down like crazy., bounces you up and down like crazy., Kimmi's movement is smoother, the, Kimmi's movement is smoother, the, Kimmi's movement is smoother, the, chimney smoke is nice, and obviously, chimney smoke is nice, and obviously, chimney smoke is nice, and obviously, once again, way cheaper. Though early, once again, way cheaper. Though early, once again, way cheaper. Though early, on, there's just this random little, on, there's just this random little, on, there's just this random little, staircase in the middle of the path for, staircase in the middle of the path for, staircase in the middle of the path for, some reason. And Kimmi's controls, all, some reason. And Kimmi's controls, all, some reason. And Kimmi's controls, all, four directions were reversed. Forward, four directions were reversed. Forward, four directions were reversed. Forward, was backward, left was right. Oh, and, was backward, left was right. Oh, and, was backward, left was right. Oh, and, something funny happened during Opus', something funny happened during Opus', something funny happened during Opus', build. Halfway through, Opus deleted one, build. Halfway through, Opus deleted one, build. Halfway through, Opus deleted one, of its own agents testing tools. It, of its own agents testing tools. It, of its own agents testing tools. It, thought it was a duplicate, but it, thought it was a duplicate, but it, thought it was a duplicate, but it, wasn't. Its final report just flat out, wasn't. Its final report just flat out, wasn't. Its final report just flat out, said, "I deleted the audio owner's, said, "I deleted the audio owner's, said, "I deleted the audio owner's, verification tool. That was my mistake.", verification tool. That was my mistake.", verification tool. That was my mistake.", But yeah, this round, Opus own quality, But yeah, this round, Opus own quality, But yeah, this round, Opus own quality, Kimmi at a quarter of the price. Okay, Kimmi at a quarter of the price. Okay, Kimmi at a quarter of the price. Okay, one quick build before the finale where, one quick build before the finale where, one quick build before the finale where, they get 12 hours each. For this one, they get 12 hours each. For this one, they get 12 hours each. For this one, each AI gets just one hour, one HTML, each AI gets just one hour, one HTML, each AI gets just one hour, one HTML, file, a supercar showroom with an, file, a supercar showroom with an, file, a supercar showroom with an, exploding car speed. No critical loop, exploding car speed. No critical loop, exploding car speed. No critical loop, this time. I wanted to see raw output, this time. I wanted to see raw output, this time. I wanted to see raw output, under pressure. They both named their, under pressure. They both named their, under pressure. They both named their, cars, which I love. Opus built the Apex, cars, which I love. Opus built the Apex, cars, which I love. Opus built the Apex, GT1. Kimmi built the Veloce S760. Opus, GT1. Kimmi built the Veloce S760. Opus, GT1. Kimmi built the Veloce S760. Opus, used 215,000 triangles. Kimmi used, used 215,000 triangles. Kimmi used, used 215,000 triangles. Kimmi used, 67,000. And more triangles did not mean, 67,000. And more triangles did not mean, 67,000. And more triangles did not mean, better. Opus' car is blinding. The, better. Opus' car is blinding. The, better. Opus' car is blinding. The, reflections flare everywhere. There's a, reflections flare everywhere. There's a, reflections flare everywhere. There's a, spoiler piece cutting through the bottom, spoiler piece cutting through the bottom, spoiler piece cutting through the bottom, middle of the car that makes no sense., middle of the car that makes no sense., middle of the car that makes no sense., And the orbit camera doesn't work half, And the orbit camera doesn't work half, And the orbit camera doesn't work half, the time. It just tries to snap you back, the time. It just tries to snap you back, the time. It just tries to snap you back, into place. Kimmi's is cleaner. The, into place. Kimmi's is cleaner. The, into place. Kimmi's is cleaner. The, parts are where the parts should be, for, parts are where the parts should be, for, parts are where the parts should be, for, the most part. The camera just works., the most part. The camera just works., the most part. The camera just works., This round goes to Kimmi. $7 versus $3, This round goes to Kimmi. $7 versus $3, This round goes to Kimmi. $7 versus $3, faster, cheaper, worked better. And now, faster, cheaper, worked better. And now, faster, cheaper, worked better. And now, the finale. An entire starship you can, the finale. An entire starship you can, the finale. An entire starship you can, walk through in first person, room by, walk through in first person, room by, walk through in first person, room by, room. You can sit down in the cockpit, room. You can sit down in the cockpit, room. You can sit down in the cockpit, and actually fly it through space. And, and actually fly it through space. And, and actually fly it through space. And, there's a whole solar system out there, there's a whole solar system out there, there's a whole solar system out there, to explore. Different planets, moons, to explore. Different planets, moons, to explore. Different planets, moons, even the sun. Then you charge the warp, even the sun. Then you charge the warp, even the sun. Then you charge the warp, drive and warp through space to an alien, drive and warp through space to an alien, drive and warp through space to an alien, jungle planet. One that you can actually, jungle planet. One that you can actually, jungle planet. One that you can actually, land on, step out of the ship, and, land on, step out of the ship, and, land on, step out of the ship, and, explore. They each got a 12-hour budget., explore. They each got a 12-hour budget., explore. They each got a 12-hour budget., Opus used 8 hours and 40 minutes of it, Opus used 8 hours and 40 minutes of it, Opus used 8 hours and 40 minutes of it, and $1,057, and $1,057, and $1,057, worth of tokens. Kimmi used 6 and 1/2, worth of tokens. Kimmi used 6 and 1/2, worth of tokens. Kimmi used 6 and 1/2, hours and $163., hours and $163., hours and $163., Opus spawned me standing on top of a, Opus spawned me standing on top of a, Opus spawned me standing on top of a, chessboard sitting in the middle of the, chessboard sitting in the middle of the, chessboard sitting in the middle of the, room, and while everything was lagging, room, and while everything was lagging, room, and while everything was lagging, in, if you didn't move the right, in, if you didn't move the right, in, if you didn't move the right, direction, you just got stuck up there, direction, you just got stuck up there, direction, you just got stuck up there, which kind of sums up Opus' build, a, which kind of sums up Opus' build, a, which kind of sums up Opus' build, a, crazy amount of detail, and some of it, crazy amount of detail, and some of it, crazy amount of detail, and some of it, just gets in the way. Kimmi spawned in, just gets in the way. Kimmi spawned in, just gets in the way. Kimmi spawned in, the cockpit, not on top of anything, and, the cockpit, not on top of anything, and, the cockpit, not on top of anything, and, the positioning of everything is just, the positioning of everything is just, the positioning of everything is just, cleaner. The doors slide open, and in, cleaner. The doors slide open, and in, cleaner. The doors slide open, and in, Opus' game, the doorway to the warp room, Opus' game, the doorway to the warp room, Opus' game, the doorway to the warp room, is half blocked, not by anything real, is half blocked, not by anything real, is half blocked, not by anything real, just decoration, classic too much, just decoration, classic too much, just decoration, classic too much, detail. There's a fire locker in the, detail. There's a fire locker in the, detail. There's a fire locker in the, hallway fully labeled with its own, hallway fully labeled with its own, hallway fully labeled with its own, button. The button does nothing. That's, button. The button does nothing. That's, button. The button does nothing. That's, kind of a theme with Opus, it loves, kind of a theme with Opus, it loves, kind of a theme with Opus, it loves, adding buttons that don't do anything., adding buttons that don't do anything., adding buttons that don't do anything., Kimmi went the other way, fewer things, Kimmi went the other way, fewer things, Kimmi went the other way, fewer things, but everything is real. I could actually, but everything is real. I could actually, but everything is real. I could actually, brew the coffee in the bedroom. Walking, brew the coffee in the bedroom. Walking, brew the coffee in the bedroom. Walking, to the back of the ship, Opus has the, to the back of the ship, Opus has the, to the back of the ship, Opus has the, spacesuit on the wall half blocked by, spacesuit on the wall half blocked by, spacesuit on the wall half blocked by, crates. Kimmi has a whole labeled suit, crates. Kimmi has a whole labeled suit, crates. Kimmi has a whole labeled suit, station, clean, nothing in the way. Then, station, clean, nothing in the way. Then, station, clean, nothing in the way. Then, the cockpit, Opus blocked its own, the cockpit, Opus blocked its own, the cockpit, Opus blocked its own, entrance again with a huge random metal, entrance again with a huge random metal, entrance again with a huge random metal, piece, but inside, it's insanely, piece, but inside, it's insanely, piece, but inside, it's insanely, detailed. Every switch is labeled, even, detailed. Every switch is labeled, even, detailed. Every switch is labeled, even, if it's not all clean and proper up, if it's not all clean and proper up, if it's not all clean and proper up, close. There's even a little hologram of, close. There's even a little hologram of, close. There's even a little hologram of, the whole solar system floating between, the whole solar system floating between, the whole solar system floating between, the seats, and looking out of the, the seats, and looking out of the, the seats, and looking out of the, cockpit looks crazy. And Kimmi sitting, cockpit looks crazy. And Kimmi sitting, cockpit looks crazy. And Kimmi sitting, down in the pilot seat froze the game at, down in the pilot seat froze the game at, down in the pilot seat froze the game at, first, but it's a quick fix, and the, first, but it's a quick fix, and the, first, but it's a quick fix, and the, screens actually work. You can select a, screens actually work. You can select a, screens actually work. You can select a, planet on the system display. Opus has a, planet on the system display. Opus has a, planet on the system display. Opus has a, button for that, too, but it does, button for that, too, but it does, button for that, too, but it does, nothing. You can fly the ship first, nothing. You can fly the ship first, nothing. You can fly the ship first, person in the cockpit or third person, person in the cockpit or third person, person in the cockpit or third person, from outside the ship. In Kimmi's, from outside the ship. In Kimmi's, from outside the ship. In Kimmi's, though, at first I was just spinning out, though, at first I was just spinning out, though, at first I was just spinning out, of control, so I sent a quick prompt, of control, so I sent a quick prompt, of control, so I sent a quick prompt, and a few minutes later, it flew no, and a few minutes later, it flew no, and a few minutes later, it flew no, problem. For some reason, both ships, problem. For some reason, both ships, problem. For some reason, both ships, have a huge hole in the back of them, have a huge hole in the back of them, have a huge hole in the back of them, that you can see right through to space., that you can see right through to space., that you can see right through to space., Both games also have different cinematic, Both games also have different cinematic, Both games also have different cinematic, camera views you can switch through., camera views you can switch through., camera views you can switch through., This shot of the ship over the jungle, This shot of the ship over the jungle, This shot of the ship over the jungle, planet is just so cool. Opus flying had, planet is just so cool. Opus flying had, planet is just so cool. Opus flying had, some issues, though. It crashed on me, some issues, though. It crashed on me, some issues, though. It crashed on me, multiple times. If you roll the ship, multiple times. If you roll the ship, multiple times. If you roll the ship, while in the cinematic camera, the whole, while in the cinematic camera, the whole, while in the cinematic camera, the whole, game freezes, and there's a bunch of, game freezes, and there's a bunch of, game freezes, and there's a bunch of, random black boxes that flicker while, random black boxes that flicker while, random black boxes that flicker while, you fly. Look at this sun, though., you fly. Look at this sun, though., you fly. Look at this sun, though., Earlier in the build, Opus critic called, Earlier in the build, Opus critic called, Earlier in the build, Opus critic called, it, quote, a featureless white blob., it, quote, a featureless white blob., it, quote, a featureless white blob., With the light reflecting off the ship, With the light reflecting off the ship, With the light reflecting off the ship, and everything, I think it looks awesome, and everything, I think it looks awesome, and everything, I think it looks awesome, now. Okay, time to warp. You charge it, now. Okay, time to warp. You charge it, now. Okay, time to warp. You charge it, up, and if you walk back to the warp, up, and if you walk back to the warp, up, and if you walk back to the warp, room, the power source is actually, room, the power source is actually, room, the power source is actually, charged up and spinning now with power, charged up and spinning now with power, charged up and spinning now with power, flowing through the lines connected to, flowing through the lines connected to, flowing through the lines connected to, it. And the warp lever itself is hidden, it. And the warp lever itself is hidden, it. And the warp lever itself is hidden, under a little red safety cover you have, under a little red safety cover you have, under a little red safety cover you have, to flip open first. You pull it, and, to flip open first. You pull it, and, to flip open first. You pull it, and, Opus went hard here. The whole warp is a, Opus went hard here. The whole warp is a, Opus went hard here. The whole warp is a, full cinematic, and the tunnel looks, full cinematic, and the tunnel looks, full cinematic, and the tunnel looks, really cool. Kimmy's warp works, but, really cool. Kimmy's warp works, but, really cool. Kimmy's warp works, but, there's no real cinematic for it. Then, there's no real cinematic for it. Then, there's no real cinematic for it. Then, you come out the other side, and the, you come out the other side, and the, you come out the other side, and the, jungle planet is right there. For the, jungle planet is right there. For the, jungle planet is right there. For the, landing, you hit the atmosphere belly, landing, you hit the atmosphere belly, landing, you hit the atmosphere belly, first, and the ship catches fire. You, first, and the ship catches fire. You, first, and the ship catches fire. You, punch through the clouds, and the jungle, punch through the clouds, and the jungle, punch through the clouds, and the jungle, opens up underneath you. Then it cuts to, opens up underneath you. Then it cuts to, opens up underneath you. Then it cuts to, the ground, and you watch yourself come, the ground, and you watch yourself come, the ground, and you watch yourself come, down, kicking up a ring of dust as the, down, kicking up a ring of dust as the, down, kicking up a ring of dust as the, ship settles. It's not perfect by a long, ship settles. It's not perfect by a long, ship settles. It's not perfect by a long, shot, but it's still really cool. And, shot, but it's still really cool. And, shot, but it's still really cool. And, once you're down, looking out through, once you're down, looking out through, once you're down, looking out through, the cockpit glass at the forest all, the cockpit glass at the forest all, the cockpit glass at the forest all, around you is beautiful. Getting out of, around you is beautiful. Getting out of, around you is beautiful. Getting out of, Opus' ship took some work, though. I, Opus' ship took some work, though. I, Opus' ship took some work, though. I, couldn't get the exit ramp open at all., couldn't get the exit ramp open at all., couldn't get the exit ramp open at all., They had put the button in a completely, They had put the button in a completely, They had put the button in a completely, unreachable spot, so I had to send a, unreachable spot, so I had to send a, unreachable spot, so I had to send a, prompt to fix that. And even then, you, prompt to fix that. And even then, you, prompt to fix that. And even then, you, don't really walk down the ramp. For, don't really walk down the ramp. For, don't really walk down the ramp. For, both games, you just kind of glitch, both games, you just kind of glitch, both games, you just kind of glitch, through it onto the ground. But once I, through it onto the ground. But once I, through it onto the ground. But once I, was onto the planet, it looked really, was onto the planet, it looked really, was onto the planet, it looked really, cool. God rays coming through the, cool. God rays coming through the, cool. God rays coming through the, canopy, glowing sports drifting through, canopy, glowing sports drifting through, canopy, glowing sports drifting through, the air. The colors are so vibrant, the air. The colors are so vibrant, the air. The colors are so vibrant, everywhere. There's a colossal tree, everywhere. There's a colossal tree, everywhere. There's a colossal tree, ancient ruins, and a waterfall pouring, ancient ruins, and a waterfall pouring, ancient ruins, and a waterfall pouring, into a glowing pool. Kimmy's looks cool, into a glowing pool. Kimmy's looks cool, into a glowing pool. Kimmy's looks cool, but I really love the look of Opus', but I really love the look of Opus', but I really love the look of Opus', jungle world. Although in Opus, I kept, jungle world. Although in Opus, I kept, jungle world. Although in Opus, I kept, getting stuck on random plants., getting stuck on random plants., getting stuck on random plants., Everything you've seen in these games is, Everything you've seen in these games is, Everything you've seen in these games is, generated from pure code. No downloaded, generated from pure code. No downloaded, generated from pure code. No downloaded, models, no textures. The water, the, models, no textures. The water, the, models, no textures. The water, the, mountains, the cars, the planets, it's, mountains, the cars, the planets, it's, mountains, the cars, the planets, it's, all just math. All right, without even, all just math. All right, without even, all just math. All right, without even, mentioning price, just on quality and, mentioning price, just on quality and, mentioning price, just on quality and, how fun the games were, I think Kimmy, how fun the games were, I think Kimmy, how fun the games were, I think Kimmy, won the boat racing game, the, won the boat racing game, the, won the boat racing game, the, snowboarding game, and the car showroom., snowboarding game, and the car showroom., snowboarding game, and the car showroom., And while Kimmy made a really cool space, And while Kimmy made a really cool space, And while Kimmy made a really cool space, game, Opus' space game just looked, game, Opus' space game just looked, game, Opus' space game just looked, unreal. But Kimmy's been so much cheaper, unreal. But Kimmy's been so much cheaper, unreal. But Kimmy's been so much cheaper, on every single game, literally 19 times, on every single game, literally 19 times, on every single game, literally 19 times, cheaper on the snowboarding game. Total, cheaper on the snowboarding game. Total, cheaper on the snowboarding game. Total, bill, $2,300 for Opus, and only $400 for, bill, $2,300 for Opus, and only $400 for, bill, $2,300 for Opus, and only $400 for, Kimmy. These AIs are progressing so fast, Kimmy. These AIs are progressing so fast, Kimmy. These AIs are progressing so fast, and are so amazing at making games. I, and are so amazing at making games. I, and are so amazing at making games. I, really enjoyed using Kimmy K3 and highly, really enjoyed using Kimmy K3 and highly, really enjoyed using Kimmy K3 and highly, recommend it. So, if you want to try, recommend it. So, if you want to try, recommend it. So, if you want to try, Kimmy yourself, use the link in my, Kimmy yourself, use the link in my, Kimmy yourself, use the link in my, description. And right now, there's an, description. And right now, there's an, description. And right now, there's an, extra 15% bonus for new users on your, extra 15% bonus for new users on your, extra 15% bonus for new users on your, first purchase until October 1st. Thanks, first purchase until October 1st. Thanks, first purchase until October 1st. Thanks, for watching. Make sure to like and, for watching. Make sure to like and, for watching. Make sure to like and, subscribe and comment what I should make, subscribe and comment what I should make, subscribe and comment what I should make, next.
