Timestamp: 2026-04-11T10:29:30.796269
Title: Brad - In 2007, Stanford professor Joel Peterson gave a 1 hour masterclass o... 2042586684731330560
URL: https://x.com/BradleyKellard/status/2042591348080168971?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 1:08:38

Description:
### 第一部分：结构解构 (Structural Deconstruction)

*   **核心命题 (Core Thesis)：**
    谈判并非一场旨在“赢过对手”的零和博弈或技巧竞赛，而是一系列旨在建立**持久、基于信任的协议**的对话；谈判者的**长期声誉（品牌）**远比单次交易中的微小利益分配更为重要。

*   **证据基础 (Evidentiary Base)：**
    *   **个人经验：** 作者在房地产和公司并购领域数十年的从业经历，涉及数十亿美元的交易额和上千次交易。
    *   **案例研究：** 包括与特朗普的早期会面、与人寿保险公司的权力不对等博弈、数十年的合作伙伴关系维护、以及与女儿关于“宠物大鼠”的家庭谈判。
    *   **理论支撑：** 引用了 Fisher 和 Yuri 的《原则性谈判》（Getting to Yes），特别是 BATNA（谈判协议的最佳替代方案）概念。

*   **逻辑架构 (The Warrant)：**
    该论证基于**“重复博弈” (Serial vs. Episodic)** 的逻辑：因为商业世界是互联的，单次谈判的恶劣行为会损害谈判者的长期品牌，从而增加未来所有交易的成本。因此，通过展现诚信、关注对方利益（Win-Win）和维持情绪稳定，可以降低摩擦力并创造更多价值。

*   **声明范围 (Stated Scope)：**
    主要适用于复杂的商业协议、长期合作伙伴关系、创业环境以及内部人际关系。作者坦承在极端权力不对等（如早期职业生涯面对人寿公司）或正式诉讼中，这些原则的适用形式会发生变化。

---

### 第二部分：冷酷而公平的评论 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review)

*   **最强形式辩护 (Steelman)：**
    作者主张将谈判从“战术诡计”提升到“战略声誉”的高度。在一个信息高度透明的时代，谈判者的诚实和可预测性确实能产生“信任红利”，从而跳过无谓的拉锯，直接进入价值创造环节。这种方法在长期合伙关系中具有无可比拟的成本优势。

*   **最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)：**
    “只要你表现得值得信赖且理性，就能达成更好的协议。”
    > *“If you really want to be an effective negotiator, be trusted.”*
    这一论点忽略了**掠夺性博弈**的现实。在资源有限且博弈次数为一次（One-off）的场景下，单方面的“信任”和“透明”等同于向对手缴械。作者的成功很大程度上源于他已经积累了巨大的资源和退出路径（BATNA），这使得他有资本表现得“大度”，而资源匮乏的初创者若模仿此举，可能在建立品牌之前就已破产。

*   **证据审查 (Evidence Audit)：**
    作者提供的证据存在明显的**幸存者偏差**。他提到的“退出会议室”导致对手妥协的案例，前提是他是价值十亿美元资产的掌控者。他没有提到过，当他处于绝对弱势且没有替代方案时，这种“理性品牌”是否曾被对手利用并导致惨败。此外，将“给女儿买老鼠”这种基于亲情的退让类比为商业谈判，存在严重的范畴错误——家庭关系的底线是爱，而商业关系的底线是损益。

*   **隐藏前提 (Hidden Premises)：**
    1. 假设谈判对手同样是**理性的长期主义者**（忽略了非理性对手或急功近利者的破坏力）。
    2. 假设“双赢”空间在所有交易中都存在（忽略了纯粹的存量博弈）。
    3. 假设谈判者的个人魅力和“讨人喜欢”在跨文化或纯机构化博弈中依然有效。

*   **盲区 (The Blind Side)：**
    作者几乎完全回避了**结构性权力分配**的影响。在垄断者与供应商、大资本与小创业者之间，所谓的“对话”往往是伪装的通牒。作者的建议更像是一种“强者的仁慈”，而非“弱者的生存手册”。

*   **致命一击 (One Hit Kill)：**
    如果谈判对手的战略目标就是通过一次性博弈彻底摧毁你或榨干你的利润（例如恶意收购或专利流氓），你坚持的“不耍手段、保持诚信、追求双赢”品牌，除了让你在破产时显得更有尊严外，还有什么实际的防御作用？

*   **如何证实/证伪 (What Would Settle It)：**
    需要一项对比研究：在权力处于极端劣势且博弈信息不对称的条件下，采用“原则性双赢策略”的谈判者与采用“进取型博弈策略”的谈判者，在生存率和资产增长率上的真实差异。

---

### 第三部分：概念映射图 (Conceptual Map)

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    subgraph SG_Core["💎 谈判核心哲学"]
        A["<b>谈判即对话</b><br/>并非战争，而是获取所需且价格可接受的过程"]
        style A fill:#FFD700,stroke:#DAA520,stroke-width:3px,color:#333
    end

    subgraph SG_Principles["🛠️ 实践关键点"]
        direction TB
        B1["<b>正确的人选</b><br/>与拥有决策权的人谈判"]
        B2["<b>BATNA 意识</b><br/>了解自己和对方的替代方案"]
        B3["<b>大象 vs 蚂蚁</b><br/>在小事上让步以换取核心目标"]
        B4["<b>品牌建设 (Brand)</b><br/>建立'理性、可信、坚定'的声誉"]
        A --> B1 & B2 & B3 & B4
    end

    subgraph SG_Mindset["🧠 心理模型"]
        direction LR
        M1["<b>序列博弈思维</b><br/>没有孤立的谈判<br/>(Serial vs Episodic)"]
        M2["<b>双赢假设</b><br/>寻找创造性方案<br/>而非单纯分蛋糕"]
        M3["<b>情绪控制</b><br/>保持低基准音量<br/>无视挑衅技巧"]
        B4 --> M1
        A --> M2 & M3
    end

    subgraph SG_FisherYuri["📖 Fisher & Yuri 框架"]
        direction TB
        F1["人与问题分离"]
        F2["关注利益而非立场"]
        F3["创造互利选项"]
        F4["坚持客观标准"]
        M2 --> F1 & F2 & F3 & F4
    end

    subgraph SG_Critique["🚩 批判性审视 (Hostile Review)"]
        direction TB
        C1["<b>权力不对等盲区</b><br/>弱势方无法仅靠信任生存"]
        C2["<b>幸存者偏差</b><br/>大资本家的'优雅'不具普适性"]
        C3["<b>一次性博弈陷阱</b><br/>诚信在匿名/恶意博弈中易被利用"]
        C4["<b>情感范畴错误</b><br/>家庭谈判逻辑不能完全平移至商业"]
    end

    B4 -.-> C1
    M1 -.-> C3
    M2 -.-> C2
    A -.-> C4

    %% --- 样式定义 ---
    classDef mainNode fill:#FFFACD,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:2px,color:#333
    classDef logicNode fill:#E1F5FE,stroke:#01579B,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#01579B
    classDef theoryNode fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#1B5E20
    classDef reviewNode fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#C62828,stroke-width:2px,color:#B71C1C

    class A mainNode
    class B1,B2,B3,B4,M1,M2,M3 logicNode
    class F1,F2,F3,F4 theoryNode
    class C1,C2,C3,C4 reviewNode

    %% --- 背景风格 ---
    style SG_Core fill:#FFF9C4,stroke:#FBC02D,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Principles fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#2196F3,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Mindset fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#9C27B0,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_FisherYuri fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#4CAF50,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Critique fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#EF5350,stroke-width:2.5px
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
be a little bit more of a class than a kind of a lecture or presentation. I learned something about marketing, because I was told that the title of this initially was, how to negotiate when you absolutely have to have the deal? Well, that is a great title. I mean, that's a title that you would come for. I mean, everybody would come to hear, how do you negotiate when you have to have the deal? Everybody wants to know how to do that. They asked me, what will you teach them? I would say, don't get in that position, where you absolutely have to have the deal. So it'd be a very short session. So I changed the session to the one that you've signed up for, which is conducting effective. Negotiations, a little more pedestrian title, a little less exciting. But I think we'll go over some things that may influence the way you think about negotiations. So who in here likes to negotiate? Raise of hands. So that's maybe 20% of the class. Who just dreads negotiation? That's even a smaller position. So the rest of you are kind of indifferent. You'll do it. You'll eat your broccoli if you have to, but you're not looking for it to. Negotiation is the vegetables of your business life. You'll do it. You know it's good for you. You know you have to do it, but you don't absolutely love it. So who, and let's just take a second on, those of you who like it, why do you like it? What is it you like about it? Now the hands disappear, yeah. Well, compared to my engineering field, when I knew everything was right or wrong, black or white, in negotiations, everything's gray, and nobody can say I'm wrong. OK? So you feel better about yourself. You don't get any bad end. You don't get any. I get credit, you know. Exactly. You can say you could have been it better. Yeah, all right. Yeah, the reason I wanted to negotiate is that typically I have high expectation. I have my negotiate, I'm going to win. I'm going to get better on the other side. So you're going to improve your situation. The situation. OK, so you negotiate to improve whatever situation you're involved in. In complex situations, it's just rarely the case that you can make a deal without some level of negotiation. So I look at it as just as a means to the end, and get into the end as kind of a goal. On the flip side, doing win-win deals is really a lot of fun. OK. So you see it largely as eating your broccoli. But sometimes you do get to turn it into a d***er. Oh, that account is not quite working for me. I keep thinking, in the first George Bush, you made the comment about how you hated eating broccoli. So I actually like broccoli, too. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I know that. I think the win-win thing is fun. And it's also like a piece that's putting other clubs in the guy's approach and is thinking of the person, what do I want? How do you get it all to get it to work? And you look at the win-win. That's fun to make a world. So win-win agreements are fun. And you can negotiate the higher the percentage of deals you can get there, win-win, the more you like it. Other. I think that you need opportunity for creativity. It's one of the most creative aspects of business. It does allow you to fashion solutions according to usually different kinds of facts, different fact situations. So you get to be, you get to express some creativity. Other things, yeah. Do we have a big relationship or so? Is it a young person? Yeah. You understand better what they want, where they want to go, and you can disclose them so more. And I'll bet you, those of you who said you didn't like negotiations saw it as a way of destroying relationships, of stressing out relationships. So a lot of it depends on what are you doing to relationships as you negotiate with other parties. How about those of you who didn't like it? Let's get some more things that you don't like about notion. For those who just say, man, I could do without this. What do you not like? Yeah. This makes me very uncomfortable to think that I do not have enough information to get the most out of this negotiation. And more often than not, I just regret the results. I'm thinking, I could have done better. OK, so you look back on it and you say, shoot, I got taken. I didn't get as good a deal as I might have gotten. I lost. Other things you don't like about, yeah. Most of the time, hopefully, the person on the other side is where our is an intelligent team you're dealing with. But you do get what I call amateur. If I pound on the table, that's an effective deal. That can get just intellectually and emotionally tiresome to the old. You can get abused in negotiation. And there are a lot of issues around power and information. If there's a disparity in power, leverage, information, and you're dealing with a party who's going to use that and take advantage, that you can go out of the room feeling abused. Yeah. Yeah. I actually met with Donald Trump in his office in New York about 20 years ago before he was a huge cheese. But he was, well, no, he still had the same hair. He actually tried to sell me an interest in the Washington Generals. You know, the Washington Generals? This was a USFL football team that had drafted Herschel Walker. And so he was very proud of that. And he was trying to sell me an interest in that. And I didn't fall for it. So that's my qualification for teaching a class on negotiation. Actually, my qualifications is I have negotiated billions of dollars of transactions over the years, literally hundreds, if not 1,000 different kinds of transactions. I was in the real estate business for 20 years. And I was actually the chief financial officer of a big real estate company for about 10 years. So I was negotiating debt deals and equity deals. And then partner departures and solving litigation. So my life was a diet of negotiation, just solid diet of negotiations. And then when I got done with that, I started buying companies. And it became a different diet of negotiation. So I've seen a lot of different kinds of negotiations. I have experienced the feeling of looking forward to a day when I'm negotiating with great anticipation and really loving it because I like the people on the other side. I like trying to problem some. I like being creative. I like all those elements. And I also have looked at certain days of negotiating where I dread it. I cannot wait to get the day behind me. So there's nothing intrinsic about negotiations that say you should like it or not like it. I remember teaching a real estate class here at Stanford about 10 or 12 years ago. And asking the class roughly the same question. But I did it in the form of who of you likes to buy a new car? And that was the most highly correlated question with who likes to negotiate and who doesn't. There are some people who absolutely hate the process of buying a new car because it feels like you come out a little dirty. You don't have the it's an uneven information, uneven power and whatever. So it can be a bad experience. Well, who here are expert negotiators? Raise of hands. Every hand should go up. Every hand in the room should go up. You all are here in life because you have been superb negotiators. You would not be in. But what is negotiation? Negotiation is getting what you want at a price that's acceptable to you. So you have paid prices to be at this place in your life that you're happy with. So you are expert negotiators. And I want to ventilate that a little bit and let you really kind of peer into what it is that you've been so good at. But first of all, here's maybe a little bit of a map for you start thinking about the terrain of negotiation. All of the conversations you have in life, you think broadly about it, everything that you've done has been a negotiation. For those of you who are married, you're negotiating all the time with your spouse, with your children. In your job, you're negotiating all the time. In school, you're negotiating. I mean, conversations are in effect a give and take. And there's a give get transaction. And usually, the more informal they are, the more successful people feel. When you do with friends and family, usually, they feel more successful. And you get into these sort of style, where we think about negotiations as an entrepreneur, is in this area of stylized negotiations, where there are agreements, there are certain things that we negotiate, we sit down at a table, somebody takes notes, we write it up, and there are certain things that we trade off. And then finally, very formal negotiations. These are typically ones that are done in arbitration or litigation, where there are rules of evidence, where it's a very structured, narrow thing. And that one is not a very fun one. Although I've now spent four years in litigation, I'm good enough. In fact, I had one attorney say that I was the best witness he had ever run into. And I started liking litigation after that. This was an opposing attorney, too, so you feel pretty good about that. So what makes for successful negotiations across all of those? And I recognize so many people from my past in here, it's going to be hard not to cold call on Angie here, FA here, Nicola. So what makes for successful negotiation? If you think about successful negotiations, what do you think about it? I've just had a successful negotiation. What's your self-talk? Yeah? Is that the right expectation? OK, your expectations. You've said them the right way going in. They've been met. Therefore, you've achieved your objectives. That's a successful negotiation. Yeah? Everybody ask three pieces. My perception, my strategy, and then I write a decision. OK. It's also why everything, your decision is interested in that. You must write a perception. How do you find out? Oh, that is fine online. Oh, that is something I should buy for. And they have to sit as strategy. And that means everything. OK, so some of it is how you define the terrain, how you and the other party perceive it, and then are you able to execute in that perceived terrain. Bonnie? When when? It's easy to find what when is on your perspective, because you're happy. But I see when on the other side is that the residual effect after they walked out the room and as time goes on, but they're not upset and don't kind of undermine and negotiate whatever the result was. So they were happy, too. Because you are thinking more broadly than a lot of business people think about negotiation. I mean, these are what I would call enlightened comments about negotiation. Here's what most business people are negotiating. This is the essence of most business agreements, these five things. So they're focused on getting the best price, getting the most attractive terms, making sure that whatever time frames for execution or deliverables, whatever are acceptable, making sure the warranties are in place. And then if things go wrong, they've got remedies. They may be legal remedies. They may be economic remedies. They're probably a combination of both. So most business negotiation, which is in this stylized category in the middle, is so focused on me getting what I want in these five areas. And people don't think more broadly than that. If people who do a lot of negotiating around these things talk about these techniques, does anybody not run into these before as sort of things that are taught in negotiation class? Are any of these new to any of you surprising? The bathroom. The bathroom one is a commonly used technique. Feed the person a lot of water and a lot of food, and then just keep talking. Keep the pressure on. So using the bathroom breaks is a powerful. If you're using techniques, and what do I mean by plane? They've got a plane to catch. They're scheduled, exactly. They've got to catch a plane. And so you just carry on the negotiation. You speak slowly. You make things drag out. You disagree at the last minute, just as they're running for their planes. Oh, you do the Colombo thing. One more thing. You know? Have any of you been subject to any of these? What does it feel like? You have to assess whether it's almost in confidence or is it actual bad faith? And that can be difficult. And it's annoying to have that experience. Eat their pace. How do you feel? You're dealing with an incompetent party or a bad actor. Where's your time? Where's the work? It makes you angry. Very few people don't recognize these. If you're on the other side of the table, it's not like, oh, my gosh, what is happening? I don't know. I don't understand. This is sure working on me. Most of the time, you perceive immediately these techniques and you resent them. You're angry about them. So in terms of techniques that people teach, I think these are anti-successful agreement techniques. You may get a deal done, but you're unlikely to get a deal that is lasting, enduring, flexible, where you build relationships, where you create solutions. But these are used all the time, mostly by investment bankers. I'm just kidding. Sorry. Sorry. I know. Boy, could you turn the tape off up there? I had one other technique, which I run into quite a lot dealing with competitors, which is the, during a set of complex, long-long negotiations, maybe over the course of months. The, you discover that in the course of the supposedly good faith negotiation, the competitor, for example, has been actually promoting something completely different. We're talking to somebody else. And the explanation you get when you protest is, I'm very sorry. We had no idea that was going on. Yeah. The improvisation begins. The night in the night. The night in the night, right? Yeah. Or just innocent. You know, I had no idea. Or, oh my god. It seems like I'm going to say this. Yeah. Yeah. Which puts you on your heels, puts you at a disadvantage. Maybe there are others. Anybody in here experience other obvious techniques that are being used to gain power. Yeah, John? We were locked in the room once. Yeah. I mean, it was kind of amateur. He was dacked in the early days in Eastern Europe. And we just climbed out the window. Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! I bet there are a lot of interesting stories. There was another one. So, yeah. Language. There's a duality in terms of a metric experience. Having had a negotiation in China, where I was sitting across the table for a gentleman who spoke or at least didn't claim to this book in any language. Yeah. I translated it, unfortunately. And so that was one kind of, was an interesting barrier. Because I was pretty sure that he understood English and a variety of reasons. And smoke was also another one. Yeah. He was an avid smoker. And I can't stand smoke. And I tried my hardest to make sure that he didn't know that. That certainly affected kind of the way. You know, I was probably going to spend in this four by eight room. Yeah. It was very interesting. Anything physically uncomfortable or getting a leg up to language? There's another way that I see language used. And that is abusive language. You know, people that start dropping F bombs or shouting, you know, cursing at you, whatever. They believe they get a leg up. And in some ways, most of us kind of, we go a little bit on our heels when somebody starts cursing at us or they raise their voice or something. I mean, as tough as you may be, if somebody starts doing that, there's something in the inner child of all of us that recoils a little bit and is back on our heels a little. Now, it can cause you to come back in like manner. It can cause you to get to that level yourself, which may or may not be a good thing. Come in. So I had actually the office that happened to me once where we were having issues and then we couldn't come to an agreement. And then they came back and they were actually, you know, they could do more, more than what they were saying. They gave me everything. So they were treating me with kindness and then they went on having that and changed it again. So it was the opposite of using the abusive language. So it's kind of the loop leg, you know. And that, yeah. Where people use different techniques to deceive, Andy. So, Joe, I have a feeling you're going to tell us ways to actually do this that aren't these ways. But let's see these guys examples where you actually are faced with people like this on the other side of the table. And how do you actually take control or sort of set it on a positive tone, especially here at Secretia where you're sort of feeling like this is the company I really want to buy. Or this is the job that I really want to get. And you don't really have as many options, but these people are actually coming in with these techniques. What would you advise us to do? Well, let's have the group. I'll give you the way I react to it. But anybody in the group, you know, somebody is using one or more of these on you. Yeah. Just follow on. So, calling them on it is one really thing to say. You know, I've actually done this in a litigation where the opposing attorney was deposing me. And he stood up and got right in my face and started to shout at me and he said, why did you do such and such? And you know, it really is off-putting. And you're, all it shows in the transcript is why did you do such and such? That's all it shows. That's all it shows. And if you answer the way you're feeling when somebody gets in your face and shouts at you and accuses the attorney, you say, well, you son of a guy, I'll tell you the reason. You know, and you'll do it in a way that isn't effective. Most effective thing that I found was exactly what you're saying. I say, why are you standing up and raising your voice? I mean, that goes on the record. So that's the most copied down way of doing exactly what you're saying is you really call them in a nice way. Why are you raising your voice? What makes you shout about that question? Why are you standing up? Why are you pacing the floor as you get all of it on the record? Now, you don't need to get it on the record in a normal negotiation, but calling them on it is one thing. What's another way that you could deal with that? I started asking questions. That's where I started to do it. Questions are very effective. You know, just asking, just posing questions. You know, that's always a very inoffensive way of taking the volume level down, getting information, cooling people off, another way. We've got to reach a higher plan because if you're in this type of mode, the other person's not in good faith. In most of the notions, we're going to be doing, you need to have a relationship. And the relationship is usually a lot more important than the actual deal you've finally enough with a lot of cases. So, I mean, I think you do have to call him on it. You have to say, you know, what's your purpose here? And you guys, if he's doing one, you're doing another, it doesn't make sense. You guys have to be both wanting a deal and more important best when we win. And he's a big hit there. You have such power and such an advantage. And you really do need the deal that they get away with more, that it's tough to raise them to that level. When there's such a disparity in terms of information or power, that it can be very tough. I'll tell you what I try to do is make it completely ineffective. Just make it so either I ignore it, I just don't pay attention to what it is they're doing. By that, I mean I don't drink water. I am able to out-l- my bladder is better than their bladder, you know? Or I will plan my trip with an extra night of a hotel room and I'll have an extra flight out the next day. So I'm not anxious about, I'll let them know I'm leaving at five o'clock tonight. Oftentimes they'll push the thing and I just don't sweat it. We stay and then pretty soon to me it becomes a question, well let's keep staying here, let's keep working. You know, I've missed my plane, let's work, it's eleven at night, no problem. I can keep working. Well, I mean you kind of make it so that the game that they've set up hurts them. So they really pay the price for whatever game they say. So make it ineffective. So these techniques really can sometimes work marginally in the short run on some people, but they're not really very powerful long-term techniques. Now if you look at textbook discussions and negotiation, you run into these terms. And I'm not going to talk about the, I want to talk really today about very practical, real-world situations. But these are, this is the terminology, you're running, so I know some of you are going to take classes or have taken classes in negotiation. These will not be unfamiliar terms to you in the lexicon of negotiation. So here are some practical keys to successful negotiation. And these will look just so simple-minded, which is in fact what most really practical things are born of experience. But the first thing is negotiate with the right price. I'm going to tell you a half a dozen stories here before we wrap up where you'll see how I learned these particular lessons I think. But get with the right party. You would be amazed at how many negotiations go on with the wrong party, with the unempowered lieutenant, with somebody who really is not the decision maker, whatever. So figure out who the right party is. And are you talking with the right party? Secondly, is become a trusted negotiator. And I put here that's a function of CCP, and my students will recognize this as a function of character, competence, and power. For somebody to be trusted, they have to be high character, they have to be competent, and they have to be empowered to make a decision. So you want the right party for you to negotiate with is somebody you can trust. The right party for them is that you must be also trusted. So if you want to enter high-quality negotiations, getting high levels of trust based on character, competence, and empowerment are really important things to assess. Then know your own batna. What's a batna? In unison? That's the alternative to a negotiated agreement. Okay, this is a term that was developed by Fisher and Yuri in 1981 out of the Harford Negotiation Study, which they really found that if people could go into a negotiation with an idea of what is their best alternative to this negotiation working out successfully, they came out with better end results. You go in with far more confidence. I've taken it to another level. What I go into negotiations now is I figure out, I don't know it for sure, but I try to assess what is the other party's batna. So I really think hard about what is it they want to achieve, and what are their options, because that really helps you kind of assess the whole thing. You're not just thinking my agenda, my agenda, my agenda. Here's what I want. Price, term, remedies, warning. This is what I need. And so many negotiators are going in with their own agenda. We'll go in and think about what is the lay of the land for the other party, and that helps. We'll talk a little bit later about Fisher and Yuri's map, but I think there are three or four suggestions that they make that are kind of their broad map. They're really very helpful. There's certainly a difference between battles and wars. We used to call the elephant ant. Some people don't know the elephants from the ants. Have you ever negotiated with somebody for whom every deal point is something that they have to win? Everything is competitive. Everything that's brought up, they have to win every deal point. I'm here to submit to you. That's a really dumb way to negotiate. This is a given, if you're going to try to develop relationships the way Nikolas said, or if you're going to try to come out with creative solutions or whatever, you really don't want this. I have to win every deal point. So know where the elephants are and where the ants are. Be willing to lose some battles to win the war. Yeah. Rachel? There's been a lot of points out there in the first place, so it wouldn't have been to my advantage. Just put points there that I know I don't feel so strongly about when the other party doesn't do the same thing. They should be. I mean, in really effective sort of win-win negotiations, you share with what you're trying to achieve. Lee Iacocca has a great line. He was the guy that turned around Chrysler. And he said, you know, when I want to achieve something, I tell the other party exactly what it is I'm trying to achieve and what price I'm willing to pay to achieve it. And that's really kind of the starting point where it's sharing in front of this. There's a lot more sharing of information in that kind of a model of negotiation. It doesn't always, it's not always something you can do. And then I, you know, getting back to these techniques, I would say don't worry too much about taking. So you have to be aware of them. You have to be, and it tells you something, if somebody's using, I always think when somebody is shouting at me or walking out of the room or throwing things, there's information in that. It's like I had a partner one time in the real estate business who looked at a joint venture document that was this thick. And he looked at it and he picked it up and he says, in any document that's that thick, there's something in it for me. And in a way, anybody who's throwing things and screaming and shouting and slamming doors or locking you in rooms or anything like that, there's something in that for you. You know, you can get the high moral ground, you can at least get information. So don't worry too much about them, but be aware of them. And then really understand what the other party, this is kind of back to the figure and the other person's badminton. If the more you can understand their values, and I'll tell you stories in a minute that illustrate each of these, the more you can understand really what it is that drives them. What's important to them? The more likely you are to craft a solution to things that satisfies what it is that's important to them. So here, you've all seen this before, just to pause on it for a second. Those of you who dread negotiations probably have experienced some of this win-lose experience. Those of you who said you really enjoyed them have probably experienced more of the left hand column. Okay, so here's seven situations that have sort of illustrated these points for me. And I only tell you these, not because I've had some unique negotiating experience, but because you may recognize in some of these things your own experience, you may be able to tie it into your own experience and internalize it in your own way so that it really does belong to you. The first one, I taught a negotiation session in the real estate course here at Stanford, a number of years ago. And I had a version one and version two of this. And version one, the instructions were, I want you all to have fun. So this was the three-party negotiation. There was a buyer, there were two or three properties, a buyer, a seller, and a lender. And they had to come up with a tripartite agreement. And so everybody went off in these negotiating teams and made deals. The instructions were have fun, be creative, learn everything you can about real estate and everything. And then just report back on your experiences. Well, here's what happened. There were reasonable deals made. They were made quickly. They were relatively easy to understand and document. And there was a lot of camaraderie. People came out of it saying, man, this was a fun exercise. We like each other. Aren't Stanford MBAs cool? I just really love my classmates. So that was kind of the outcome. So that's the negotiation 1.0. So then we changed the instructions. The objective is to win. You're going into this negotiation. The idea is you want to win. Your grades are going to be influenced by it. And the results are going to be published in rank order. And you need to make a report on how you feel about it. What would you guess the change in results was? Yeah, fewer deals were made. They were made more slowly. A lot more time was expended. I mean tons more time. People said this negotiation exercise took longer and was tougher than anything they had done at Stanford. They were frustrated and they hated their classmates. They said, I will never do business with these turkeys again. I had no idea these people were such jerks. So it fundamentally changed by the mindset. And I set up the mindset. It means my fault. But the economic outcomes weren't any better. They were fewer, as somebody pointed out. A lot more complex deals. A lot of them were unworkable, undocumatable, unenforceable, and the interpersonal relationship were strained. So you can see by having this mindset of we've got to win and it's zero sum. And it was defined. I mean, there were so few things in most business negotiations. There was so little data that was price, terms, timeframes, warranties, and remedies were about the only thing people could work with. Well, I mean they went in and just pummeled each other. Just beat each other to bloody pulp. So that's the first story. And I'll let you draw your own conclusions from these. The second one is when I was first starting in business, I had a deal that I was working on in Asuka, or they say, Asuka, Spain. Did I do that right? Any of the Spanish speakers? Asuka. And we were going into a bank there to borrow money. And we walked in and it was clear within a few minutes that they really weren't quite expecting us there. So they ushered us into this office with a guy that said, oh, well, you know, and so he sat down to listen to us. And as we were sitting there negotiating over financing this office building, two guys in white coats came in and they took the painting off the wall. Then a few minutes later they came back in and took the credenza. And then they unplugged the phone and walked out with the phone. Pretty soon they came in and took the desk, put it on a dolly and went out with it. We're sitting there in these chairs talking and all of the furniture has been moved out. Well, it turns out this guy was not really the person who had anything to do with him. He was just a courtesy party who said, well, these guys are here. They're from the United States. Make them feel good. And so the negotiation went all over this. Kind of, I will tell you my point on this, it goes back to make sure you're negotiating with the right party. We had absolutely the wrong, this guy could not have made any deal with us whatsoever. But we didn't check it out. So we sat there talking across an empty office about a deal that was never going to happen. Well, that's an extreme example of something that we all do a lot of time. We end up negotiating with parties without power, without the ability to make a decision. So you really want to think that through. The third one was also early on in my career. I was a chief financial officer in my late 20s of a big company. And I was supposed to make a joint venture with a life insurance company. So I'd studied all the joint ventures have been. I'd figured out what I wanted on this deal and what a win-win. I mean, I was steeped in all these things. So I sat down with the very senior 50-ish life insurance executive. And we started to go through the deal points. And there were eight or 10 of them. And after I'd been said, no, we're not going to do that. And about the eighth deal point, I rose on the ninth deal point and said, we really need to have this one. And you've said no on eight of them. And he said, Joel, sit down. Just take notes. Your job here is just to take notes. We're not negotiating anything. Just take notes. We're the life company. We've got all the money. You're just the developer. Take notes. And so it was clear to me that what that negotiation was about. That negotiation was not going to be one in that series of discussions. But I was really going to just document it in a way that we had a chance to do our business. And we had options in the future. So that wasn't the only option that I had. Limited partners. I recall early on thinking that I wanted to develop a brand. I wanted to be seen as a certain kind of negotiator. And part of my brand was going to be that I would calculate exactly what a deal was worth. And then I wouldn't budge on the price. I wanted to be known as somebody who knew the value of what it was I was offering. And so if I said, this is a million dollar investment, I didn't want to settle for 950,000. I really wanted to say it's a million dollar. And I guess if you want to trade two nickels for a dime, I'll do that. But I'm not going to trade a dime for one nickel. So I really wanted that to be my brand because I realized I was going to be in this business a long time and do hundreds of deals. So in negotiating with these limited partners, I became very stiff on this. And it was only when I got options. And what happened to me in this, in one case, was a guy said, well, I'm not going to do the deal. I need to do the deal at 950,000, not a million. I went out that night and called another limited partner investor group and said, I'll tell you what, if you'll do this deal at a million dollars, I can document the deal tonight. And I can give you all these other things, but I need the agreement tonight. So when the guy called up the next day to resume negotiations, I could say, sorry, I've already done that deal. So I was able to establish that I don't move on price. And it worked for a while until the guy and I became really good friends. We ended up doing 300 deals together over a 20-year lifespan. So a lot of transactions, about 50 deals are so into it. He said, Joel, I just got to tell you, I like to negotiate price. I don't feel good unless I can negotiate price. So if you want it to be a million dollars, tell me it's a million 50. Just tell me it's a million 50. I'll come back with a million. And then we'll both feel good. And so we negotiated that the last 250 deals we did, I would go in about 5 or 8% higher than what I would accept. He would knock it down. He'd feel good and I'd feel good. So you kind of going in and having sort of a reasonable, what I'm calling ROR, a rules of the road. If you're going to have serial negotiations with somebody, develop rules of the road. And senior partner departure, this is a situation that was a billion dollar transaction. So it was a big deal. And this was 15 or 20 years ago. So it was a very significant transaction. And the partner came to me and said, you know, I want to, let's agree, going into this negotiation, let's agree on values. Let's agree what these properties are worth. And then we'll make the trade. On this particular case, I thought, the biggest mistake we could make would be to agree on the values. Let's disagree on the values. So you set up whatever, you know the properties better than I do. You value them however you wish and then I'll select. And the very fact that we didn't agree on values allowed me to select deals where I thought I was getting more than my fair share. He then was able, because he set values, he was fine with the deal. Because he'd represented what the values were. And it was just applying the percentage to the values he'd set. So we were able to get a transaction done. My departure, so I left the Crow organization with the reputation of being a conciliator, with the reputation of being reasonable, with the reputation of being a win-win dealer. I'd settled all the litigation that Crow had had for 20 years, the departing departures. I was seen as somebody who was litigation averse. And because that had become my brand, my negotiating brand, when it came to that, they filed litigation against me, realizing that he'll never fight. This guy's such a pussy, such a conciliator, he's such a giver, and he'll make everything, but that I really had no place to go. I had set myself up with my brand. From that, I want you to think very carefully about the brand you want to have. The last story is one that I think you'll remember. So what happened? We had lived before years of litigation. So I now have a new brand. I'm now known as the ferret. No, it's interesting, because I think what my brand has become is I am somebody who is very reasonable, who will do win-win negotiations. But if you get to the point where you cross me and my principles or if you do something that I really think is completely unfair that I become very stiff, so you don't want to get into litigation with me, but you don't need to. So that's a better brand than the brand I had before, which was the guy will never sue. He will never get into litigation. So you really want to think carefully, because that brand, and part of my message here is that there are no episodic negotiations. You may think it's an episode. You may think you're going in and having a one-off deal with somebody. That person talks to somebody else, who talks to somebody else, who talks to somebody else. And pretty soon everything is good. We live in a very connected world. So think carefully. If you're doing a lot of negotiation for a living, think very carefully about the brand you want to have. Now I apologize to my students, former students, for this next one, because several of you have seen this, but I had a negotiation with my daughter over this last topic. So I'm out here teaching at Stanford. And I come out for basically 10 weeks when I teach here, and so she's back in another state, and we correspond by email. I get back a couple of times. She and my wife get out a couple of times, but we're basically away from each other. So here I get this email from her. Dear dad. You hear that I'm getting a rat? Won't that be cool? The pet store lady said that you can train rats to fetch and stay. I wanted to get mice because they're cuter and don't have a disgusting tail, but mice just run away. And they never become your friends. Rats will sleep on you, and I'm sure dad you'll become great friends with my rats. I'm thinking of naming them ritzy and scraps. Won't that be cute? And you can even see them when they're tiny babies. Take deep breaths if you're getting nervous. I will pay for them and the cage with my very own money. All you and mom have to do is buy the food, which really doesn't cost much. I've already done everything else. I think I'm ready. It's OK. I can take care of them. I've proven I can take care of animals. I even sweep up the cat's barf. I can handle it. So you can trust me to take care of ritzy and scraps. They are you have names. I hope you're doing well at Stanford. Isn't this warm and fuzzy? I'm doing well here. Same normal things. Practicing soccer, whining to mom about getting rats. Just so you know, she already said yes. Is this a negotiator? This is a 11 year old kid. I mean, so some of this stuff, when I ask how are the expert negotiators, I promise you we are born knowing something about negotiations. Just so you know, oh yeah, I'm sure she's sick of the same conversations. Can I get a rat, mom? Please, I'll do my practicing. That's my secret in life. Promise to do my practicing. Love, Elise. So here's this. This is the initial volley. This is the negotiating position. She's kind of laid out her negotiating position. So you're sitting out here 1500 miles away thinking, no way. She has crossed a barrier. I'm unwilling to cross. So here's my response. I want you to notice this because this is a real life negotiation. And I'm going to have you predict how it came out. Was this a rat after you became a parrot? What's that? No. Good point. Dear Elise, are you nuts? I've been killing rats at the house in Woodside. They are not cute. They're not nice. They're not controllable. They stink. They eat everything. They make little back poops everywhere. And I have to clean up the mess. Just this week I bought some deacon to put out where the rats live. The next day I found a dead rat near the pool and another one trapped in the garage. Just to be clear about how I feel. I must inform you that we smashed its head in the drill. I'm a negotiator. Come on. It was fat and ugly. By the way, I think its name was something like Ritzy. At any event, one of the big reasons I was getting so excited about coming home was to get away from the rats out there. Now I may as well stay, huh? See, I'll hurt. I'm just hurt. I'm appealing to this young daughter. What would you like next? A python? Or how about some Ebola virus? Or maybe you could raise maggots. Anyway, I still love you and miss you and we'll see you next week. Love Dad. So how did this negotiation come out? It was pretty. What's that? She gets the rats. She gets the rats, exactly. She got the rats. Now why would an expert professional negotiator with $10 billion worth of deals under my belt give into this 11 year old kid on some stinkin' rats? In balance and power. That's a great point. Besides her mom at art, he said yes, so a real imbalance of power. To me this is the difference between knowing the elephants and the ants. I was willing to lose a battle to win the war. And the war, what I wanted, winning for me, defining winning for me was raising a child who's responsible, who loves me, who will listen to me on things that really do matter. And so I was really willing to kind of take a different view of this. Now the really gratifying part about this story is in the end she gave the rats back to the pet store lady. After the pet store lady had told her she would be feeding them to the snakes. So she disliked the rats as much as I did in the end. And she came away saying, Dad, you were right about the rats. So now- The subsequent exchange line. I arrived home and the rats were there. She said, no, no, it was done. It was a general deal. Mom had already said yes. It was, do you want to hold them, Dad? No, I think I'll pass on that. So I think we've covered most of these. This idea of episodic versus serial. Think serial in your mind as you think about your brand. Outside versus inside. This last was a very much of an inside negotiation. You'll have negotiations with third parties and with people who are really close, whether they're employees, partners, brothers, sisters, children, spouses. The inside ones are by far the toughest negotiations. They're the least forgiving and they're the most important ones to lose. So this idea that every negotiation is a competitive game that you have to win, it really helps you get over it. The more inside negotiations you do in your life, the more that you realize you don't have to win certainly not every deal point and you don't have to win every negotiation. So don't think of it as a competitive game. This idea about, so I just like this quote, don't wrestle with pigs. You get dirty and they enjoy it. So be very careful who you negotiate with. And that means generating options. That means always having other people to talk with and to do business with. The worst thing in life is to get in business with people that don't have the same values you have that you don't respect. I mean, it is misery. It's a different kind of misery from just about everything you know except being married to somebody who makes you miserable. Then this idea of being reputation building. I've given you my examples of that. But here are some alternative reputations you have. One is I'm tough. I'm unbending the legal documents governed. I've known a lot of people who are that way. And often they're people who have a lot of money and a lot of attorneys and they really believe that's a smart way to do it. Because guess what happens? In the end they may not have a lot of money. They may not have the same position of power. And they may not have a friend when things go against them. Live by the sword. Die by the sword. You can be flexible. Open to reworking the life company joint venture partner I told you about who just said take notes Joel. Turns out he was one of the most flexible partners you could ever have. So the documents were the documents were the documents. He couldn't negotiate them. He didn't want you to negotiate them. Just take notes. But when it came to working out the problems of living in the real world of doing business he was extraordinarily flexible. And so I kept doing business with him. I probably did 25 deals with him over my life in real estate. Because he was such a great partner. He was a tough negotiator documenter but he was a great partner. You can have this reputation of being eager to make deals. Where you just say I do a lot of singles and doubles. I don't do home runs. The other is that there are some people in the negotiating world who just say I only do home runs. If I don't get a forebagger. If I don't hit a home run. If I don't win the thing. Those are the only deals I'll do. So you need to decide what your reputation is there. We've talked about these last couple. The last one is this Fisher and Yuri trained problem solver and we'll talk for a second about Fisher and Yuri. Yeah, come here. We were talking about basically being selected about making the issue. What do you do when you're in a situation where let's you say there is a bend or that you need to negotiate with. And they are really meet their fingers. They're not at all kind of about there. You don't agree with their values. Yeah. What do you do in that kind of situation? In some cases you just have to suck it up and negotiate with them. In some cases you can get another party in the organization you negotiate with. In other cases you can talk to them and say, okay here's where I think our country is going to conflict and get to a deeper level and talk with them about that. I used to have a partner that would say to people, you know, we're not making a deal on this. What would it take to make a deal? And that was effective in certain circumstances. You know, what would it take to get this relationship on a better footing or to develop a more long lasting give take relationship. And sometimes you can get that real with people. My view is going back to the very beginning is generate options. So you don't have one vendor that you really rely on or one alternative source of financing or one. I mean I like having a lot of options. So and I realize that's a bit of a Pollyanna. You can't always do that. I mean we just did a deal in one of the companies I'm involved in where they were about 40% of our business. They were really important. We had to get that deal done. So consequently we took notes and got the deal done. So you're going to do some of that. There is not a panacea to every negotiating problem. You are going to deal with difficult people. You're going to have win-lose negotiations. You're going to have some things that you dread. Whatever. But I'm just saying you can nudge it so that it's a happier experience. It's more of a win-win experience. And the better you choose parties. So here are mindsets that I've got when I go into negotiations. What time do we end Marcelo? Where did Marcelo go? 12. At 12? So we have till 12. Are you happy until then or are people wanting to get out of here? We're okay. Let's talk a little bit about these. One of the mindsets that I think is a really good mindset is that a negotiation is just a conversation. It's just an exchange. You're good at conversations. You talk to people all the time. So this idea of oh my gosh we're going into a room. We're closing the doors. We're sitting on opposite sides of tables. That feels a lot more threatening than. I'm just going to talk about our various interests and try to have a conversation to come up with something that's mutually satisfying. So think of negotiations as conversations and you're good at. Think of negotiations as a series we've mentioned. Think that agreements, it's winning. It's back to this idea of what is winning. The idea is that your agreement should be durable. There's no point in coming to an agreement that it terminates in a lawsuit six months later. You've not negotiated a good agreement. So you want them to, there to be some elasticity, some sense and usually that is a function of how much trust you've developed with your opposite party. If you've developed very high trust with your opposite party, once you come to an issue, the first instinct isn't oh my gosh let's go to the documents. What do the documents say? Most of the good deals I've ever made have never once referred back to the documents. Not once. And some of these things have lasted 25, 30 years. I mean my whole business career. We never ever once go to the documents. Why? Because we like and trust each other and these are real issues and we sit down and we talk through. So you want a durable agreement. So that's another mindset to have. Another mindset is this thinking win-win. Another one is to recognize that you're accountable. A lot of times people think as they negotiate they're only accountable themselves. I'm winning for me. They're very rare negotiations where you don't have broad accountability. It's to your employees, it's to the community, it's to shareholders, it's to a board. Sometimes this can be a very effective not in the room party that you can use to give you some breathing room to pause and say well I wouldn't feel right about this because it would be the community. I don't really feel good about dumping this sludge into the river. I mean you really have an accountability. So this idea that there's an accountability outside your own interests is a good mindset to have. Watching your language, I don't think it works to curse, scream, swear, slam doors, walk out of rooms, even bluff. I think bluffing is a fool's gain. Because all you need to do is bluff once and have it not happen and you have spent your reputation. You are forever more seen as a bluffer. So my view on that is just never bluff. Never use what I call high velocity words. You think of the words that just sort of raise people's emotional tension and their temperature. Just stay away from them. And if somebody uses them on you, ignore it. Don't let it work on you. Don't let your temperature rise. So watch your language and watch. What if you're like genuinely upset and you get frustrated? You're not doing it for effect. You're not using the technique that you try to control at all costs? I think you should try to control it. And here's why. You know, if you, and as part of it is you're setting a baseline. You know, whatever your baseline is, it's the variation from your baseline that will get effect. So if I say to you, I will never agree to that. That's pretty powerful. If you've negotiated with me a lot of times, for me to say, I will never do that. I mean, you really believe, I've just screamed that out. Whereas if I'm throwing things around and cursing and, you know, a lot of histrionics, I can shout, I'll never do that. And you'll say, yeah, yeah, okay, he'll come back tomorrow. So I think keeping the baseline, keeping the baseline really low is a very smart thing to plus it keeps your own blood pressure down. I did walk out of this billion dollar deal that I did out here where we were swapping a billion dollars worth of property. I sat with the partners in the room. There were six of them and one of me. And the most senior of them just said something that was just completely off the wall and unfair. And I just stood up and I said, gentlemen, it's been a pleasure to be your partner. All these years, I'm so sad that it has to end this way. I'm catching my plane and I'll be gone. Give me a call in Dallas if you want to talk about this. It was that simple. Before I could get to the airport, I had a call from three of these partners to say, please come back. We wanted to go shoot this. And it wasn't that I had gotten up. I'd stood up when they said it. I'd left the room, but my speech was really that calm. And I think they took that as, oh my gosh, he is serious. He is really serious. And that's the message that I'm really serious. That's the one I wanted to get across. Not that I'm chapped and I'm out of control or because people don't trust that as much. In the end, this idea of being trusted. If you really want to be an effective negotiator, be trusted. The other party can trust you over the long run. You'll develop that brand and you'll develop durable agreements, high trust relationships, creative solutions, relationships with others that you like, et cetera. I'm just recommending it as a different mindset than a lot of people have towards it. Yeah. I just want to give a first half. I say, in North America and in some degree less in Europe, I've worked along the world. Getting angry may not work, but it's not a big surprise that it happens. The rest of the world. You're always calm and translates across all cultures. Yeah. Yeah. It's kind of a universal language. Clarity. One thing I would love for something in some cultures is just an absolute no-no and you've lost them completely. You burned all your credibility. In this credibility? Yeah. You're seen as an unstable person. Here, people might or may not forgive you. Depending on the industry. Some industries are full of wild people. Yeah. We negotiate through an intermediary, an investment banker, an agent, an attorney who's actually negotiating an agreement. Would you use this as a model for selecting an intermediary? Because that person can often have a tremendous impact on your brand as well because they might act completely. And they're off on their own. You don't really know exactly what they do either. I think you have to be very careful in who you select because they carry your brand. I've seen more attorneys follow up deals than actually facilitate deals. In fact, I select my attorneys in terms of are they deal facilitators? Are they deal makers, problem solvers? Or are they sort of ego maniacs who have to be right on every deal point? We have to draft the toughest document. A lot of times what you'll do in deals is you'll get attorneys fighting and the attorneys will destroy the deal and the relationship. So number one is I try not to have very many intermediaries on the front line. I don't like to have agents, brokers, investment bankers, or attorneys negotiating my deals. I like to establish a one-on-one relationship with the other principal in deals. I really think that's the safest way to maintain your brand and it's the way to create better relationships, to create better outcomes. It's more work in the short run, it's less work in the long run. I think there is a reason that people use these intermediaries and I think they can be valuable. I think it's always smart to have somebody outside the room because negotiations are these real-time things where you're exchanging things back and forth, back and forth, back and forth, and you can make mistakes and it really helps to have somebody, whether it's a board, a partner, an attorney, or whatever who can come in, refine, correct, smooth over. So I like to use them in all those things. A lot of times I'll say I need to run this by my partners or I'll need to, this makes sense to me but let me check with the attorney or tax counsel or my accountant on this. I like to have a little bit of a background. So I use them that way but I never put them and say my attorney will negotiate with your attorney and make a deal. It's very dangerous. It's not to say it doesn't work yet. I had a question regarding this idea of not really going above or below this kind of medium. And as someone I'm very emotive, that's who I am and what I'm hearing is poker face, try not to get hooked into these things, try not to be emotional, which to me is really like if you said the best way to negotiate is if you're 6 foot tall and I'm 5 feet tall. So to me it's like okay, I agree, I can see how that would be effective. How do you do? You're just not 6 feet tall. Yeah, I'm not 6 feet tall. How do I do it? I think you start out by being yourself. Authenticity is something that will be measured by the opposing party, which will go back to trust a lot. I'm just saying that you can modulate, you can keep the swings from being so wild and that will help you. I don't make you 6 feet tall, but it may make you 5 foot 2. So either hand goes up and down. I think you need to be yourself. I mean I'm demonstrative too. I mean I speak with my hands, I wander around, I get excited about ideas. I mean it's who I am. So I am that, but I just say there are certain things, there are certain thresholds that I don't want to cross because I spend a lot, if I cross those thresholds I've spent something that doesn't return to me what it's worth. So if you're all over the map and around like that, you just need to realize you're spending something that's pretty valuable and you don't have any place to go. You know once you've cranked the volume up all the way, there's no place to go. So leave yourself a place to go and I think moderating that and the final one is be likable. And I know this is, I mean you didn't come to Stanford to hear be likable. When I went through litigation I remember talking with, I think it was opposing counsel after it was all over again. And he said something like you know, I wanted to dislike, I wanted to hate you. I really wanted to be as angry at you as the plaintiff was. He said, but I couldn't help but kind of liking you. And he said, I didn't want it to influence you. I'm a professional and I did my job but it still had an impact. So I talked to my attorney about it and he says, I've had the same experience where I've gotten, and he deposed Ivan Boesky. I mean you go down the list, people he'd been through a whole bunch of them and he said, you know certain of them were really likable scoundrels and it made a difference. And others you know you just wanted to fry. And so this idea there is something, you know even the most jaded, professionally trained litigator who does gladiating for a life. You know says it makes a difference if you like the other party. So I think there is almost no upside in being a jerk and being a turkey. I just don't think it gets you anywhere. Well we're about out of time. Let's just see if we've got any more of these. We've talked about agents, being a principal. We've talked about lawyers as memorializers or agents, disputes. You know this is in the far end of the formal end of negotiation whether you mediate, arbitrate, or litigate. I guess my advice on that is they're all kind of bad outcomes and you really want durable, flexible agreements and trust relationships. If you have to get to these litigation and arbitration are not that different in terms of arbitration may be a little shorter and a little less expensive but you're still presenting information under rules of evidence typically to a special master or rented judge or something. So it's a very much the same kind of thing. Mediation, that negotiation is a split the baby negotiation. So if you're right you're going to lose half. So I think you just want to be, so this is again in this very stylized formalized way, the rules of those negotiations very much narrow your outcomes. So just to be aware, implementing the agreement, flushing out hidden agenda items, outbursts from the material that we've kind of talked about all of those I think. So Fisher and Yuri. Is everybody in here read, how many have read Getting to Yes? Only a few of you. It may be so old that people don't read anyway. It's still the classic book on negotiation. I would recommend it to all of you who want to become a better negotiator. Written in 1981 by Fisher and Yuri, two Harvard Lawyer's and they talk about their negotiation and the salt talks and a lot of data on really sort of what works and what doesn't. They wrote another book called Getting Past Know. So Getting to Yes is the first one. Getting Past Know is the second one. Actually the second one though much less read. In fact is there anybody in here that's read Getting Past. Okay great. Not very many people have read it. It's actually I think even a better, more insightful book if you've done a lot of negotiating. Those are two really sort of good practical academic texts that give you a good map. And I can usually tell when I'm negotiating with somebody who has studied Yuri and Fisher. It's a different kind of a negotiation. It's actually quite pleasant. So here's the, if you don't want to read it, here's the reader's digest version. I'm saving you time. You thought you were wasting an hour with me. I'm going to save you a couple hours. Basically the idea is separate the people, so here are the four fundamentals. Separate the people from the problem which a lot of people don't do. They merge them. The problem's thorny. Therefore I don't like the people. The people who have this issue that's brought before me because I don't like the issue or it's putting me in an awkward position, I also don't like those people. So there's a lot of confusion. So they say separate those two. Then focus on interests, not position. In other words, what would you like to see happen? Not what position are you going to take or is the other party going to take. Because positions are not necessarily related to what are really in your interest. People express positions that may not be the actual end point that reflects their interest. Then invent options together for mutual gain where you think outside the box, invent options. And then insist, if you can, this is the hardest one for me. It's figuring out objective criteria. What would be a winning deal? What would work and then assess your deal against these objective criteria? That is the hardest one for me. But I've seen it work. And then finally for me, I'd say know your bat in that, figure it out, write it out, know what going in, and my corollary to that is calculate the other party's bat in that. So you really know that it's not life or death. There are alternatives and you'll be more likely to have successful negotiations. Now, I'm going to show you there. These are the, again, more fisher and yuri things. But if you'll just, this is how they deal with some of these dealing with problems and framing things. I'm going to flash this slide up and one other slide up. And then have you think about what else this relates to. You know, discuss each other, don't blame the opponent, see the opponent's intentions, see the situation, you know, from their perspective, give them a stake in the outcome. You know, don't react to provocation, step away, don't respond reflexively, be an active listener, agree when you can. I used to have a friend that I negotiated, a guy that became a friend that I negotiated with, who would start out every negotiation with all of the things we agreed on. So you'd go through 10 items. It's okay, we agree on this, we agree on this. And you've got in this reflexive habit of just agreeing, okay, I agree to that, that works, I agree to that, that works, okay, that's good. And you'd get down to then number 11 and 12 and 13, which were the tough ones. So these are things that yuri and fisher discuss. So what, you know, I guess I'll just tell you because we were out of time. My take on this is, this is marriage. You know, this is how I've made a marriage work for 35 years is basically doing these things. And most of the relationships you're in are subject to negotiation. And if you kind of listen to these best practices, your life will work better, your relationships will work better, and your conversations will be happier, your agreements will be more durable. And most of the time you'll feel like you won. Most of the time you won't feel dirty like you need to take a shower. And negotiations won't be just eating your broccoli, but it will be something that gives you life, elective express creativity, and build relationships. So I'll hang around here after if any of you want to discuss this or have any questions. But thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
