Timestamp: 2025-12-05T08:34:18.671906
Title: Sam Altman : How to Build the Future
URL: https://youtube.com/watch?v=sYMqVwsewSg&si=qe3Oaqpsd57dv343
Status: success
Duration: 21:09

Description:
好的，这是根据您提供的文本提炼的核心思想摘要。

### **核心思想摘要**

#### **一、 核心理念：如何产生巨大影响 (Core Philosophy: How to Make a Big Impact)**

1.  **选择做什么 (Choosing What to Do):** 成功的关键在于找到三个要素的交集：
    *   **你擅长什么 (What you're good at)**
    *   **你享受什么 (What you enjoy)**
    *   **你能为世界创造什么价值 (What value you can create for the world)**
    花时间主动思考这个问题，而不是被动地“陷入”一份工作。

2.  **选择和谁做 (Choosing Who to Work With):** “找到你的部落”至关重要，但极具挑战。
    *   **主动迁移：** 愿意搬到行业精英聚集的地方，与他们为伍。
    *   **建立网络：** 无私地帮助他人，不求即时回报。这种善意会在未来以意想不到的方式（如人脉、机会）回馈你，成为你事业的限制性边界。

3.  **如何把事做成 (How to Get Things Done):** 成就大事依赖于三个核心支柱：
    *   **专注 (Focus)**
    *   **人脉 (Personal Connection)**
    *   **自我信念 (Self-belief)：** 即使全世界都认为你的想法很蠢，你内心深处也要坚信它能够成功且意义重大。

#### **二、 执行心态与策略 (Execution Mindset & Strategy)**

1.  **投入与回报 (Effort & Reward):**
    *   **复利效应：** 职业生涯早期（如20多岁时）的努力具有复利效应。早期积累的技能、经验和人脉会让你终身受益，其价值远超后期投入。因此，早期应该比大多数人想象的更努力工作。

2.  **坚持与放弃 (Persistence & Quitting):**
    *   **内部决策：** 放弃的决定应基于“内部判断”而非“外部反馈”。当外界批评、无人问津时（“悲伤低谷”），不应轻易放弃。只有当你自己耗尽了所有想法且事情仍无进展时，才是考虑放弃的时候。
    *   **普遍错误：** 大多数人过早放弃，尤其是在项目刚开始未见成效时。

3.  **动力与倦怠 (Motivation & Burnout):**
    *   **动力的来源：** 真正的、可持续的动力源于对事业重要性的坚信、工作的乐趣以及与优秀同事的共事。金钱、名声等外部动机难以持久。
    *   **倦怠的真相：** 倦怠并非源于“过度工作”，而是源于“失败”和“缺乏进展”。“势能”（Momentum）是最好的能量来源；反之，停滞不前则极度消耗精力。

#### **三、 高阶思维与原则 (Advanced Mindset & Principles)**

1.  **风险观 (View on Risk):**
    *   **重新评估风险：** 人们普遍对风险的判断很糟糕。年轻、无名、贫穷时，承担风险的能力最强，这是一个巨大的“礼物”。真正的风险不是尝试后失败，而是因为害怕失败而从未尝试（“空谈者”而非“实干家”）。人们后悔的往往是没做的事，而不是做过的事。
    *   **敢于要求：** 勇敢地提出你的要求（Ask for what you want），不要害怕被拒绝。

2.  **长期主义 (Long-termism):**
    *   **时间是终极优势：** 在高度有效的市场中，“时间”是为数不多的套利机会。要以极长远的眼光看待价值（例如，持有最优秀公司的股票“直到永远”），对抗市场的短期思维（如季度财报）。

3.  **信念与迭代 (Conviction & Iteration):**
    *   **观点鲜明，细节灵活：** 对未来的大方向（What）要有坚定不移的信念和强烈的观点，但在具体的实现路径上（How）要保持灵活性和迭代能力。这与漫无目的地反复“转型”有本质区别。

---

### **核心结论 (Core Point)**

要产生深远影响，关键在于基于深刻的自我认知和对未来的坚定信念，勇敢地承担风险并长期坚持。

---

### **总体框架 (Overarching Framework)**

该内容的核心框架是 **“影响力三环模型”**，即产生影响力的事业应处于 **“个人擅长”、“个人热爱”** 与 **“世界需要（能创造价值）”** 这三个圆环的交集处。所有后续的策略和心态都围绕如何找到并执行这个交集点展开。

---

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    A["产生巨大影响 (Making a Big Impact)"]

    subgraph "第一步：战略选择 (Strategic Choice)"
        B["做什么? (What to Do)"]
        C["和谁做? (With Whom)"]

        subgraph "影响力三环"
            D["个人擅长 (Good At)"]
            E["个人热爱 (Enjoy)"]
            F["世界需要 (Creates Value)"]
        end

        D -- "交集" --> B
        E -- "交集" --> B
        F -- "交集" --> B

        C --> G["找到你的部落 (Find Your Tribe)"]
        G --> H["主动迁移 (Willing to Move)"]
        G --> I["无私帮助他人 (Help Others Selflessly)"]
    end

    subgraph "第二步：核心执行力 (Core Execution)"
        J["如何成事? (How to Get Things Done)"]
        J --> K["专注 (Focus)"]
        J --> L["人脉 (Personal Connections)"]
        J --> M["自我信念 (Self-belief)"]
    end

    subgraph "第三步：持续心态 (Sustaining Mindset)"
        N["长期主义 (Long-termism)"]
        O["风险观 (Risk Calculus)"]
        P["动力源 (Motivation Source)"]
        Q["坚定信念 (Strong Conviction)"]

        N --> R["时间是终极优势 (Time is the Ultimate Arbitrage)"]
        O --> S["成为行动者, 敢于要求 (Be a Doer, Ask for What You Want)"]
        P --> T["势能 > 努力 (Momentum > Hard Work)"]
        P -- "避免" --> U["倦怠源于失败 (Burnout from Failure)"]
        Q --> V["观点鲜明, 细节灵活 (Strong Opinions, Loosely Held)"]
    end

    A --> B
    A --> C
    A --> J
    J -- "由...支撑" --> N
    J -- "由...支撑" --> O
    J -- "由...支撑" --> P
    J -- "由...支撑" --> Q

    style A fill:#FFDDC1,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#000
    style B fill:#BDE0FE,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1.5px
    style C fill:#BDE0FE,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1.5px
    style J fill:#BDE0FE,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1.5px
    style D fill:#C9E4DE,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
    style E fill:#C9E4DE,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
    style F fill:#C9E4DE,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
    style G fill:#FDFD96,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
    style H fill:#FFF,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
    style I fill:#FFF,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
    style K fill:#FDFD96,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
    style L fill:#FDFD96,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
    style M fill:#FDFD96,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
    style N fill:#FFC09F,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
    style O fill:#FFC09F,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
    style P fill:#FFC09F,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
    style Q fill:#FFC09F,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
    style R fill:#FFF,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
    style S fill:#FFF,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
    style T fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
    style U fill:#FFB6C1,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
    style V fill:#FFF,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
I'm Jack, Sam's brother, and we are here, I'm Jack, Sam's brother, and we are here, in our backyard where we also live with, in our backyard where we also live with, in our backyard where we also live with, our other brother. And Sam wanted to, our other brother. And Sam wanted to, our other brother. And Sam wanted to, give us some advice about how to have an, give us some advice about how to have an, give us some advice about how to have an, impact on the world. Uh, and since he, impact on the world. Uh, and since he, impact on the world. Uh, and since he, couldn't interview himself, here I am., couldn't interview himself, here I am., couldn't interview himself, here I am., So, Sam, thank you. Thank you for taking, So, Sam, thank you. Thank you for taking, So, Sam, thank you. Thank you for taking, the time. Yeah, my pleasure. So, to get, the time. Yeah, my pleasure. So, to get, the time. Yeah, my pleasure. So, to get, started, I think one of the things that, started, I think one of the things that, started, I think one of the things that, people talk a lot about is how to get, people talk a lot about is how to get, people talk a lot about is how to get, things done, what you're working on. Um, things done, what you're working on. Um, things done, what you're working on. Um, but I know you spend a lot of time, but I know you spend a lot of time, but I know you spend a lot of time, thinking about sort of what to work on., thinking about sort of what to work on., thinking about sort of what to work on., So, could you talk a little bit about, So, could you talk a little bit about, So, could you talk a little bit about, how to pick what's important to work on?, how to pick what's important to work on?, how to pick what's important to work on?, Yeah. Um, I I think you want to look for, Yeah. Um, I I think you want to look for, Yeah. Um, I I think you want to look for, the intersection of what you're good at, the intersection of what you're good at, the intersection of what you're good at, what you enjoy, and and what where you, what you enjoy, and and what where you, what you enjoy, and and what where you, can create value for the world. And in, can create value for the world. And in, can create value for the world. And in, my experience, if you don't find some of, my experience, if you don't find some of, my experience, if you don't find some of, the intersection of those three, it's, the intersection of those three, it's, the intersection of those three, it's, hard to really have an impact. I think, hard to really have an impact. I think, hard to really have an impact. I think, most people kind of just fall into what, most people kind of just fall into what, most people kind of just fall into what, they work on. They don't give it much, they work on. They don't give it much, they work on. They don't give it much, thought. And there is benefit to that., thought. And there is benefit to that., thought. And there is benefit to that., Uh, sometimes you actually have to just, Uh, sometimes you actually have to just, Uh, sometimes you actually have to just, try stuff to figure out what you like., try stuff to figure out what you like., try stuff to figure out what you like., But I really do think it is worth, But I really do think it is worth, But I really do think it is worth, upfront thought about what you're going, upfront thought about what you're going, upfront thought about what you're going, to spend most of your waking time doing., to spend most of your waking time doing., to spend most of your waking time doing., So I think it's really good when people, So I think it's really good when people, So I think it's really good when people, think about what they're good at, what, think about what they're good at, what, think about what they're good at, what, they like, and and kind of how they can, they like, and and kind of how they can, they like, and and kind of how they can, create value for the world. And and sort, create value for the world. And and sort, create value for the world. And and sort, of in addition to what people are, of in addition to what people are, of in addition to what people are, working on, I know at Y Combinator, you, working on, I know at Y Combinator, you, working on, I know at Y Combinator, you, talk a lot about who people are working, talk a lot about who people are working, talk a lot about who people are working, on things with. Uh how do you advise, on things with. Uh how do you advise, on things with. Uh how do you advise, people to select sort of who they're, people to select sort of who they're, people to select sort of who they're, working on things with? Um this is this, working on things with? Um this is this, working on things with? Um this is this, is really hard. uh finding your tribe, is really hard. uh finding your tribe, is really hard. uh finding your tribe, finding the sort of people that you end, finding the sort of people that you end, finding the sort of people that you end, up working with on and off for the rest, up working with on and off for the rest, up working with on and off for the rest, of your career is is really hard. Uh I, of your career is is really hard. Uh I, of your career is is really hard. Uh I, think I'll tell you some things I've, think I'll tell you some things I've, think I'll tell you some things I've, learned and I will admit that I don't, learned and I will admit that I don't, learned and I will admit that I don't, have a perfect answer to this yet, but I, have a perfect answer to this yet, but I, have a perfect answer to this yet, but I, think one thing is you should be willing, think one thing is you should be willing, think one thing is you should be willing, to move. Um for whatever you're doing, to move. Um for whatever you're doing, to move. Um for whatever you're doing, there tend to be pockets of it around, there tend to be pockets of it around, there tend to be pockets of it around, the world where there are similar people, the world where there are similar people, the world where there are similar people, uh that are doing great work in whatever, uh that are doing great work in whatever, uh that are doing great work in whatever, field you care about and it's really, field you care about and it's really, field you care about and it's really, worth trying to go be be near them., worth trying to go be be near them., worth trying to go be be near them., Um and so you know we get criticized, Um and so you know we get criticized, Um and so you know we get criticized, sometimes at YC for having people move, sometimes at YC for having people move, sometimes at YC for having people move, to the Bay Area but bringing people, to the Bay Area but bringing people, to the Bay Area but bringing people, together that are interested in this, together that are interested in this, together that are interested in this, similar thing of startups I think has, similar thing of startups I think has, similar thing of startups I think has, been really valuable for for a lot of, been really valuable for for a lot of, been really valuable for for a lot of, people. I think another thing that I, people. I think another thing that I, people. I think another thing that I, have learned is that um whenever I've, have learned is that um whenever I've, have learned is that um whenever I've, helped people for for no immediate, helped people for for no immediate, helped people for for no immediate, benefit uh and with no intention of ever, benefit uh and with no intention of ever, benefit uh and with no intention of ever, getting a benefit at all uh time and, getting a benefit at all uh time and, getting a benefit at all uh time and, again in my career it has really later, again in my career it has really later, again in my career it has really later, benefited me a lot. So I think uh you at, benefited me a lot. So I think uh you at, benefited me a lot. So I think uh you at, some point often get to a point in your, some point often get to a point in your, some point often get to a point in your, career where you're you're limited by, career where you're you're limited by, career where you're you're limited by, how many good people you know and and, how many good people you know and and, how many good people you know and and, how many of those you can work with or, how many of those you can work with or, how many of those you can work with or, get to do things that uh uh together and, get to do things that uh uh together and, get to do things that uh uh together and, so find just helping a lot of people and, so find just helping a lot of people and, so find just helping a lot of people and, spending a lot of time with a lot of, spending a lot of time with a lot of, spending a lot of time with a lot of, people uh has benefited me you know, people uh has benefited me you know, people uh has benefited me you know, years after I've really helped someone, years after I've really helped someone, years after I've really helped someone, for no reason I get to invest in their, for no reason I get to invest in their, for no reason I get to invest in their, startup and it goes on to be a huge, startup and it goes on to be a huge, startup and it goes on to be a huge, success uh or we're able to like work on, success uh or we're able to like work on, success uh or we're able to like work on, open AI together any number of things um, open AI together any number of things um, open AI together any number of things um, I think just trying to help a lot of, I think just trying to help a lot of, I think just trying to help a lot of, people and out of that seeing who is, people and out of that seeing who is, people and out of that seeing who is, really impressive and who gets things, really impressive and who gets things, really impressive and who gets things, done uh is helpful. Um and in terms of, done uh is helpful. Um and in terms of, done uh is helpful. Um and in terms of, how to actually get things done. So, how to actually get things done. So, how to actually get things done. So, you've selected what to work on, who to, you've selected what to work on, who to, you've selected what to work on, who to, work on it with. You think maybe you, work on it with. You think maybe you, work on it with. You think maybe you, found your tribe and then kind of now, found your tribe and then kind of now, found your tribe and then kind of now, what what are what are sort of the best, what what are what are sort of the best, what what are what are sort of the best, ways to actually accomplish big things?, ways to actually accomplish big things?, ways to actually accomplish big things?, Well, there's a Charlie Rose quote on, Well, there's a Charlie Rose quote on, Well, there's a Charlie Rose quote on, this uh that I've always loved and I've, this uh that I've always loved and I've, this uh that I've always loved and I've, since added one more element to it, but, since added one more element to it, but, since added one more element to it, but, the quote is that the way things get, the quote is that the way things get, the quote is that the way things get, done in the world are through a, done in the world are through a, done in the world are through a, combination of focus and personal, combination of focus and personal, combination of focus and personal, connection. And the additional point I, connection. And the additional point I, connection. And the additional point I, would make uh after having thought about, would make uh after having thought about, would make uh after having thought about, it for a while is that the third factor, it for a while is that the third factor, it for a while is that the third factor, is self-belief. Um it's you really have, is self-belief. Um it's you really have, is self-belief. Um it's you really have, to have a deep-seated personal, to have a deep-seated personal, to have a deep-seated personal, conviction that this thing you're going, conviction that this thing you're going, conviction that this thing you're going, to do that a lot of people say is really, to do that a lot of people say is really, to do that a lot of people say is really, stupid is going to work and going to be, stupid is going to work and going to be, stupid is going to work and going to be, important. But I think those three, important. But I think those three, important. But I think those three, things focus personal connections and, things focus personal connections and, things focus personal connections and, self-belief um in my experience are are, self-belief um in my experience are are, self-belief um in my experience are are, how things get done in the world., how things get done in the world., how things get done in the world., So since you were, you know, as long as, So since you were, you know, as long as, So since you were, you know, as long as, you know, you've you've grown up and, you know, you've you've grown up and, you know, you've you've grown up and, certainly through your 20s and now, um, certainly through your 20s and now, um, certainly through your 20s and now, um, you've worked incredibly hard and I know, you've worked incredibly hard and I know, you've worked incredibly hard and I know, that a lot of the people around you have, that a lot of the people around you have, that a lot of the people around you have, worked very hard. Uh, what's sort of the, worked very hard. Uh, what's sort of the, worked very hard. Uh, what's sort of the, advice or the way that you think about, advice or the way that you think about, advice or the way that you think about, your work life balance in your 20s and, your work life balance in your 20s and, your work life balance in your 20s and, what do you recommend to people who want, what do you recommend to people who want, what do you recommend to people who want, to do these things and also want to, you, to do these things and also want to, you, to do these things and also want to, you, know, experience their 20s? Well, I, know, experience their 20s? Well, I, know, experience their 20s? Well, I, don't think I work as hard as a lot of, don't think I work as hard as a lot of, don't think I work as hard as a lot of, people. I think I do work pretty hard., people. I think I do work pretty hard., people. I think I do work pretty hard., Um, but I I'd say it's really I think, Um, but I I'd say it's really I think, Um, but I I'd say it's really I think, it's compound interest is a good, it's compound interest is a good, it's compound interest is a good, metaphor here. Um, if you work really, metaphor here. Um, if you work really, metaphor here. Um, if you work really, hard at the beginning of your career, hard at the beginning of your career, hard at the beginning of your career, uh, and you get a little bit better at, uh, and you get a little bit better at, uh, and you get a little bit better at, what you do every day, every week, every, what you do every day, every week, every, what you do every day, every week, every, year, and you learn more and you meet, year, and you learn more and you meet, year, and you learn more and you meet, more people and you just get more done, more people and you just get more done, more people and you just get more done, um, there's a compound effect and it's, um, there's a compound effect and it's, um, there's a compound effect and it's, far better to put that time in at the, far better to put that time in at the, far better to put that time in at the, beginning of your career uh than at the, beginning of your career uh than at the, beginning of your career uh than at the, end because if you do it at the, end because if you do it at the, end because if you do it at the, beginning, you get to benefit from it, beginning, you get to benefit from it, beginning, you get to benefit from it, uh, you know, for the rest of the time, uh, you know, for the rest of the time, uh, you know, for the rest of the time, you work. So, You know, one thing I, you work. So, You know, one thing I, you work. So, You know, one thing I, always try to do is like meet every, always try to do is like meet every, always try to do is like meet every, person I had time for, go to every, you, person I had time for, go to every, you, person I had time for, go to every, you, know, go to everything I could. Um, and, know, go to everything I could. Um, and, know, go to everything I could. Um, and, just like spend a little bit more time, just like spend a little bit more time, just like spend a little bit more time, trying to learn and get better at what I, trying to learn and get better at what I, trying to learn and get better at what I, did what I do. And I think that is, did what I do. And I think that is, did what I do. And I think that is, really valuable. Um, the, you know, the, really valuable. Um, the, you know, the, really valuable. Um, the, you know, the, beginning of your career, I I think in, beginning of your career, I I think in, beginning of your career, I I think in, terms of setting the trajectory that the, terms of setting the trajectory that the, terms of setting the trajectory that the, rest of your career follows is the most, rest of your career follows is the most, rest of your career follows is the most, valuable time. And so obviously you, valuable time. And so obviously you, valuable time. And so obviously you, don't want to work all the time because, don't want to work all the time because, don't want to work all the time because, your 20s are your 20s, but I do think, your 20s are your 20s, but I do think, your 20s are your 20s, but I do think, you want to work harder than most people, you want to work harder than most people, you want to work harder than most people, think you should. And I think that if, think you should. And I think that if, think you should. And I think that if, you do that, uh, you tend to benefit, you do that, uh, you tend to benefit, you do that, uh, you tend to benefit, from it later. Life is super unfair., from it later. Life is super unfair., from it later. Life is super unfair., Sometimes you also just get unlucky. Uh, Sometimes you also just get unlucky. Uh, Sometimes you also just get unlucky. Uh, and and so all you can do is kind of, and and so all you can do is kind of, and and so all you can do is kind of, maximize chances there. But I do think, maximize chances there. But I do think, maximize chances there. But I do think, that working hard early in your career, that working hard early in your career, that working hard early in your career, to get the leverage and the compounding, to get the leverage and the compounding, to get the leverage and the compounding, effects is underrated and one of the, effects is underrated and one of the, effects is underrated and one of the, most valuable pieces of advice that I, most valuable pieces of advice that I, most valuable pieces of advice that I, never got. And so going into that idea, never got. And so going into that idea, never got. And so going into that idea, of these early years being particularly, of these early years being particularly, of these early years being particularly, valuable um and working very hard on, valuable um and working very hard on, valuable um and working very hard on, things. How do you decide when you've, things. How do you decide when you've, things. How do you decide when you've, worked on something long enough and it's, worked on something long enough and it's, worked on something long enough and it's, time to call it quits or when you've, time to call it quits or when you've, time to call it quits or when you've, worked on it for four years and you're, worked on it for four years and you're, worked on it for four years and you're, just about to have that breakthrough? Um, just about to have that breakthrough? Um, just about to have that breakthrough? Um, h how do you make that distinction?, h how do you make that distinction?, h how do you make that distinction?, Yeah, this this is really hard. Um, Yeah, this this is really hard. Um, Yeah, this this is really hard. Um, knowing when to quit and knowing when to, knowing when to quit and knowing when to, knowing when to quit and knowing when to, give up on something, give up on something, give up on something, is there's no perfect answer to that. U, is there's no perfect answer to that. U, is there's no perfect answer to that. U, but it's really challenging to even get, but it's really challenging to even get, but it's really challenging to even get, that approximately correct. I think most, that approximately correct. I think most, that approximately correct. I think most, people give up on things way too early., people give up on things way too early., people give up on things way too early., So, the mistake that most people make is, So, the mistake that most people make is, So, the mistake that most people make is, they try something, it does not, they try something, it does not, they try something, it does not, immediately work. You see this, immediately work. You see this, immediately work. You see this, particularly in young entrepreneurs. It, particularly in young entrepreneurs. It, particularly in young entrepreneurs. It, does not immediately work. After seven, does not immediately work. After seven, does not immediately work. After seven, weeks, they say, you know what, I tried, weeks, they say, you know what, I tried, weeks, they say, you know what, I tried, this thing. it's just not meant to be, this thing. it's just not meant to be, this thing. it's just not meant to be, and I have too many other projects and, and I have too many other projects and, and I have too many other projects and, so they immediately give up and you kind, so they immediately give up and you kind, so they immediately give up and you kind, of, you know, the satirical version of, of, you know, the satirical version of, of, you know, the satirical version of, this is people that are 23 and have, this is people that are 23 and have, this is people that are 23 and have, started 14 startups um because they give, started 14 startups um because they give, started 14 startups um because they give, up on everyone before it could ever, up on everyone before it could ever, up on everyone before it could ever, possibly be successful. These things are, possibly be successful. These things are, possibly be successful. These things are, really hard. Um they take a very long, really hard. Um they take a very long, really hard. Um they take a very long, time. There are a lot of critics. There, time. There are a lot of critics. There, time. There are a lot of critics. There, are a lot of people who say this thing, are a lot of people who say this thing, are a lot of people who say this thing, sucks. It's going to fail. It's really, sucks. It's going to fail. It's really, sucks. It's going to fail. It's really, stupid. And then also there's like what, stupid. And then also there's like what, stupid. And then also there's like what, at YC we call the trough of sorrow where, at YC we call the trough of sorrow where, at YC we call the trough of sorrow where, no one even bothers to say it sucks, no one even bothers to say it sucks, no one even bothers to say it sucks, because no one cares at all. Um and that, because no one cares at all. Um and that, because no one cares at all. Um and that, is at least is demotivating. Uh most of, is at least is demotivating. Uh most of, is at least is demotivating. Uh most of, the founders that I have spent a lot of, the founders that I have spent a lot of, the founders that I have spent a lot of, time with that have gone on to be super, time with that have gone on to be super, time with that have gone on to be super, successful spent a very long time on, successful spent a very long time on, successful spent a very long time on, their idea uh when a lot of other people, their idea uh when a lot of other people, their idea uh when a lot of other people, would have given up. And either people, would have given up. And either people, would have given up. And either people, said it sucks or people said nothing at, said it sucks or people said nothing at, said it sucks or people said nothing at, all. And a framework that I have for, all. And a framework that I have for, all. And a framework that I have for, when to give up and when to keep working, when to give up and when to keep working, when to give up and when to keep working, is it should be an internal not an, is it should be an internal not an, is it should be an internal not an, external decision. um if people aren't, external decision. um if people aren't, external decision. um if people aren't, using it or if people are saying it's, using it or if people are saying it's, using it or if people are saying it's, bad, that alone is not a reason to give, bad, that alone is not a reason to give, bad, that alone is not a reason to give, up. You want to pay some attention to, up. You want to pay some attention to, up. You want to pay some attention to, that. They might be right. Um but I, that. They might be right. Um but I, that. They might be right. Um but I, think the best entrepreneurs I know uh, think the best entrepreneurs I know uh, think the best entrepreneurs I know uh, they make an internal decision about, they make an internal decision about, they make an internal decision about, when to give up or when to keep working, when to give up or when to keep working, when to give up or when to keep working, on something. Uh it's basically when you, on something. Uh it's basically when you, on something. Uh it's basically when you, have run out of ideas and something is, have run out of ideas and something is, have run out of ideas and something is, not working, then it's a good time to, not working, then it's a good time to, not working, then it's a good time to, stop., stop., stop., And so into this idea that you need a, And so into this idea that you need a, And so into this idea that you need a, long time to do anything important, long time to do anything important, long time to do anything important, what's the source of motivation for, what's the source of motivation for, what's the source of motivation for, people? Like what should people be, people? Like what should people be, people? Like what should people be, looking to find to be inspired or to, looking to find to be inspired or to, looking to find to be inspired or to, keep going on these ideas for a long, keep going on these ideas for a long, keep going on these ideas for a long, period of time?, Um I yeah I think if you don't actually, Um I yeah I think if you don't actually, believe what you're doing is really, believe what you're doing is really, believe what you're doing is really, important and if you don't derive, important and if you don't derive, important and if you don't derive, satisfaction from what you're doing then, satisfaction from what you're doing then, satisfaction from what you're doing then, you will not be able to sustain all of, you will not be able to sustain all of, you will not be able to sustain all of, the bad things that happen and the, the bad things that happen and the, the bad things that happen and the, incredibly long period of time that the, incredibly long period of time that the, incredibly long period of time that the, bad things happen over. And so the the, bad things happen over. And so the the, bad things happen over. And so the the, only motivation that I have seen work, only motivation that I have seen work, only motivation that I have seen work, for people uh over a long period of time, for people uh over a long period of time, for people uh over a long period of time, is enjoyment in what they're doing and, is enjoyment in what they're doing and, is enjoyment in what they're doing and, an intense belief that it matters and, an intense belief that it matters and, an intense belief that it matters and, ideally liking the people that they go, ideally liking the people that they go, ideally liking the people that they go, to work with every day. Um but the I, to work with every day. Um but the I, to work with every day. Um but the I, think the reasons that a lot of people, think the reasons that a lot of people, think the reasons that a lot of people, and by the way it's totally cool when, and by the way it's totally cool when, and by the way it's totally cool when, people start off saying well I want to, people start off saying well I want to, people start off saying well I want to, make money or I want to be famous. I, make money or I want to be famous. I, make money or I want to be famous. I, think a lot of people start that way and, think a lot of people start that way and, think a lot of people start that way and, they don't like to admit it. But pretty, they don't like to admit it. But pretty, they don't like to admit it. But pretty, quickly uh or at least in the first few, quickly uh or at least in the first few, quickly uh or at least in the first few, years I think a lot of people find a, years I think a lot of people find a, years I think a lot of people find a, deeper mission for why they do what they, deeper mission for why they do what they, deeper mission for why they do what they, do and that that drives them then for, do and that that drives them then for, do and that that drives them then for, the rest of the time they work. Have you, the rest of the time they work. Have you, the rest of the time they work. Have you, noticed a change in what motivates you, noticed a change in what motivates you, noticed a change in what motivates you, over the last say 10 or 12 years?, over the last say 10 or 12 years?, over the last say 10 or 12 years?, Um, yeah. I mean, I think I at this, Um, yeah. I mean, I think I at this, Um, yeah. I mean, I think I at this, point I am sort of only interested in, point I am sort of only interested in, point I am sort of only interested in, things that I find sort of interesting, things that I find sort of interesting, things that I find sort of interesting, and important. And early on, like a lot, and important. And early on, like a lot, and important. And early on, like a lot, of other people, I think I was like, of other people, I think I was like, of other people, I think I was like, well, I want to make money. I want to, well, I want to make money. I want to, well, I want to make money. I want to, you know, like be in the press or, you know, like be in the press or, you know, like be in the press or, whatever else. Uh, and I wouldn't say, whatever else. Uh, and I wouldn't say, whatever else. Uh, and I wouldn't say, that doesn't motivate me at all, but, that doesn't motivate me at all, but, that doesn't motivate me at all, but, it's honestly not a big factor at this, it's honestly not a big factor at this, it's honestly not a big factor at this, point. Yeah. Um, I just sort of like, point. Yeah. Um, I just sort of like, point. Yeah. Um, I just sort of like, there's a set of things that I think, there's a set of things that I think, there's a set of things that I think, are important. uh and I want to work on, are important. uh and I want to work on, are important. uh and I want to work on, this. I I think another point about, this. I I think another point about, this. I I think another point about, motivation that is that people don't, motivation that is that people don't, motivation that is that people don't, talk about enough um is related to, talk about enough um is related to, talk about enough um is related to, burnout. So I was told and I thought for, burnout. So I was told and I thought for, burnout. So I was told and I thought for, a long time that you get burned out from, a long time that you get burned out from, a long time that you get burned out from, working too, working too, working too, hard. And at least in my own experience, hard. And at least in my own experience, hard. And at least in my own experience, what I found is that burnout actually, what I found is that burnout actually, what I found is that burnout actually, comes from um failing and things not, comes from um failing and things not, comes from um failing and things not, working. Momentum is really energizing., working. Momentum is really energizing., working. Momentum is really energizing., The lack of momentum is super draining., The lack of momentum is super draining., The lack of momentum is super draining., And I find that I have infinite energy, And I find that I have infinite energy, And I find that I have infinite energy, to work on things that I find, to work on things that I find, to work on things that I find, interesting and that are working and, interesting and that are working and, interesting and that are working and, almost none to work on things that I, almost none to work on things that I, almost none to work on things that I, either don't find interesting or aren't, either don't find interesting or aren't, either don't find interesting or aren't, working. And so I think you see a lot of, working. And so I think you see a lot of, working. And so I think you see a lot of, founders try something and fail and, founders try something and fail and, founders try something and fail and, assume that they just can't work hard, assume that they just can't work hard, assume that they just can't work hard, enough or don't have enough energy or, enough or don't have enough energy or, enough or don't have enough energy or, passion or whatever. And that's actually, passion or whatever. And that's actually, passion or whatever. And that's actually, not true. Uh it's just that that thing, not true. Uh it's just that that thing, not true. Uh it's just that that thing, didn't work. And what you should do is, didn't work. And what you should do is, didn't work. And what you should do is, shut that company down, go on vacation, shut that company down, go on vacation, shut that company down, go on vacation, and try again. And many people then find, and try again. And many people then find, and try again. And many people then find, that oh actually when I'm doing this, that oh actually when I'm doing this, that oh actually when I'm doing this, thing that I like and that is working. I, thing that I like and that is working. I, thing that I like and that is working. I, have a huge amount of energy and I can, have a huge amount of energy and I can, have a huge amount of energy and I can, get a lot of stuff done. Uh and so when, get a lot of stuff done. Uh and so when, get a lot of stuff done. Uh and so when, you look at really successful people and, you look at really successful people and, you look at really successful people and, say how do they get all those things, say how do they get all those things, say how do they get all those things, done it's they have the benefit of, done it's they have the benefit of, done it's they have the benefit of, momentum and momentum is energizing and, momentum and momentum is energizing and, momentum and momentum is energizing and, the lack of momentum is really not, the lack of momentum is really not, the lack of momentum is really not, energizing., energizing., energizing., Working on a lot of these problems that, Working on a lot of these problems that, Working on a lot of these problems that, you know kind of inspire this type of, you know kind of inspire this type of, you know kind of inspire this type of, motivation are sort of inherently, motivation are sort of inherently, motivation are sort of inherently, riskier. Um, and I know, you know, this, riskier. Um, and I know, you know, this, riskier. Um, and I know, you know, this, is something that we've talked about a, is something that we've talked about a, is something that we've talked about a, lot about sort of the concept of taking, lot about sort of the concept of taking, lot about sort of the concept of taking, risk in a career being a repeated game, risk in a career being a repeated game, risk in a career being a repeated game, but how do you how do you uh think about, but how do you how do you uh think about, but how do you how do you uh think about, the idea of taking risks in your career, the idea of taking risks in your career, the idea of taking risks in your career, and how should people think about it, and how should people think about it, and how should people think about it, maybe differently than they currently, maybe differently than they currently, maybe differently than they currently, do? Well, yeah, I think people have, do? Well, yeah, I think people have, do? Well, yeah, I think people have, terrible risk calculus in general. Um, terrible risk calculus in general. Um, terrible risk calculus in general. Um, even people who try to be really good, even people who try to be really good, even people who try to be really good, about this are bad at it. Um the answer, about this are bad at it. Um the answer, about this are bad at it. Um the answer, I think is almost always uh a you're, I think is almost always uh a you're, I think is almost always uh a you're, wrong about what is risky and what is, wrong about what is risky and what is, wrong about what is risky and what is, not risky and b uh most people don't, not risky and b uh most people don't, not risky and b uh most people don't, take enough risk especially early in, take enough risk especially early in, take enough risk especially early in, your career being young and unknown and, your career being young and unknown and, your career being young and unknown and, poor. Um that is actually a great gift, poor. Um that is actually a great gift, poor. Um that is actually a great gift, in terms of the amount of risk you can, in terms of the amount of risk you can, in terms of the amount of risk you can, take. Um and I think people don't, take. Um and I think people don't, take. Um and I think people don't, capitalize on that enough. Uh I think, capitalize on that enough. Uh I think, capitalize on that enough. Uh I think, what risk actually looks like is not, what risk actually looks like is not, what risk actually looks like is not, doing something that you will then spend, doing something that you will then spend, doing something that you will then spend, the rest of your life uh regretting., the rest of your life uh regretting., the rest of your life uh regretting., There's a quote, you know, people regret, There's a quote, you know, people regret, There's a quote, you know, people regret, way more the things they didn't do than, way more the things they didn't do than, way more the things they didn't do than, things that they did do. So if you, things that they did do. So if you, things that they did do. So if you, really believe in something, there's an, really believe in something, there's an, really believe in something, there's an, idea that you're super passionate about., idea that you're super passionate about., idea that you're super passionate about., Um you know, and you take a calculated, Um you know, and you take a calculated, Um you know, and you take a calculated, risk to start a company realizing you, risk to start a company realizing you, risk to start a company realizing you, may forgo a couple of years of steady, may forgo a couple of years of steady, may forgo a couple of years of steady, income at another job um and whatever, income at another job um and whatever, income at another job um and whatever, else. uh and you know maybe people call, else. uh and you know maybe people call, else. uh and you know maybe people call, you a failure or whatever um that's a, you a failure or whatever um that's a, you a failure or whatever um that's a, great risk to take and if you don't take, great risk to take and if you don't take, great risk to take and if you don't take, that risk I think you have a very high, that risk I think you have a very high, that risk I think you have a very high, chance that you end up regretting that., chance that you end up regretting that., chance that you end up regretting that., Um I think the wrong kind of risk to, Um I think the wrong kind of risk to, Um I think the wrong kind of risk to, take is where people don't actually do, take is where people don't actually do, take is where people don't actually do, things or don't commit to something, things or don't commit to something, things or don't commit to something, because they don't want to fail and they, because they don't want to fail and they, because they don't want to fail and they, overrate the risk of failure and the, overrate the risk of failure and the, overrate the risk of failure and the, reputation damage or embarrassment or, reputation damage or embarrassment or, reputation damage or embarrassment or, whatever. Um I think one really, whatever. Um I think one really, whatever. Um I think one really, important thing to strive for uh in in, important thing to strive for uh in in, important thing to strive for uh in in, your career is to be a doer not a, your career is to be a doer not a, your career is to be a doer not a, talker. And the reason that people don't, talker. And the reason that people don't, talker. And the reason that people don't, do stuff, one is it's hard and two is, do stuff, one is it's hard and two is, do stuff, one is it's hard and two is, it's risky. And so you have these people, it's risky. And so you have these people, it's risky. And so you have these people, that uh you know want to dabble in a, that uh you know want to dabble in a, that uh you know want to dabble in a, bunch of different projects but never be, bunch of different projects but never be, bunch of different projects but never be, all in on one. Uh and I think it's this, all in on one. Uh and I think it's this, all in on one. Uh and I think it's this, combination of work and risk and it's, combination of work and risk and it's, combination of work and risk and it's, you know I think that's really bad. I, you know I think that's really bad. I, you know I think that's really bad. I, think history belongs to the doers and I, think history belongs to the doers and I, think history belongs to the doers and I, think you should take a risk. Actually, think you should take a risk. Actually, think you should take a risk. Actually, do something. Don't just sit around and, do something. Don't just sit around and, do something. Don't just sit around and, talk and organize and bring together, talk and organize and bring together, talk and organize and bring together, groups and go to thought leadership, groups and go to thought leadership, groups and go to thought leadership, conferences and whatever it is these, conferences and whatever it is these, conferences and whatever it is these, people spend their time on other than, people spend their time on other than, people spend their time on other than, actually building something. Um and just, actually building something. Um and just, actually building something. Um and just, take the risk of committing to what you, take the risk of committing to what you, take the risk of committing to what you, you have conviction on. Yeah. And I, you have conviction on. Yeah. And I, you have conviction on. Yeah. And I, think people also seem to have sort of, think people also seem to have sort of, think people also seem to have sort of, the fear of being told no a lot and not, the fear of being told no a lot and not, the fear of being told no a lot and not, asking for what they want. I'm sure, asking for what they want. I'm sure, asking for what they want. I'm sure, that's something that you've encountered, that's something that you've encountered, that's something that you've encountered, with people. Yeah. Um, this was one of, with people. Yeah. Um, this was one of, with people. Yeah. Um, this was one of, the other things I learned, um, that I, the other things I learned, um, that I, the other things I learned, um, that I, wish I had gotten advice on early in my, wish I had gotten advice on early in my, wish I had gotten advice on early in my, career, uh, is ask for what you want., career, uh, is ask for what you want., career, uh, is ask for what you want., Um, you will get told no a lot, but, Um, you will get told no a lot, but, Um, you will get told no a lot, but, sometimes it will work. And, and I think, sometimes it will work. And, and I think, sometimes it will work. And, and I think, you see a lot of entrepreneurs shoot, you see a lot of entrepreneurs shoot, you see a lot of entrepreneurs shoot, themselves in the foot because they, themselves in the foot because they, themselves in the foot because they, don't ask that person to quit their job, don't ask that person to quit their job, don't ask that person to quit their job, and come join them. They don't ask this, and come join them. They don't ask this, and come join them. They don't ask this, big company to do a deal with them. Um, big company to do a deal with them. Um, big company to do a deal with them. Um, and they're just not aggressive enough., and they're just not aggressive enough., and they're just not aggressive enough., Uh, and I think, Uh, and I think, Uh, and I think, you being willing to ask what you want, you being willing to ask what you want, you being willing to ask what you want, and and be somewhat aggressive are, and and be somewhat aggressive are, and and be somewhat aggressive are, really important characteristics of, really important characteristics of, really important characteristics of, being an entrepreneur. People don't want, being an entrepreneur. People don't want, being an entrepreneur. People don't want, to fail. Um, they don't want to be told, to fail. Um, they don't want to be told, to fail. Um, they don't want to be told, no. Uh, they don't want to end up in, no. Uh, they don't want to end up in, no. Uh, they don't want to end up in, some crisis. Um, another thing that I, some crisis. Um, another thing that I, some crisis. Um, another thing that I, learned, and I I won't even say I wish, learned, and I I won't even say I wish, learned, and I I won't even say I wish, someone told me this one because I don't, someone told me this one because I don't, someone told me this one because I don't, think it's a lesson anyone can teach, think it's a lesson anyone can teach, think it's a lesson anyone can teach, you. You have to just live through it, you. You have to just live through it, you. You have to just live through it, is that each crisis gets less scary than, is that each crisis gets less scary than, is that each crisis gets less scary than, the one before it. um you're running a, the one before it. um you're running a, the one before it. um you're running a, company now. I'm sure you've I hope, company now. I'm sure you've I hope, company now. I'm sure you've I hope, you've noticed this by now. Um you there, you've noticed this by now. Um you there, you've noticed this by now. Um you there, are a lot of things that really go wrong, are a lot of things that really go wrong, are a lot of things that really go wrong, and they feel like company killing, and they feel like company killing, and they feel like company killing, events and they feel like there's no way, events and they feel like there's no way, events and they feel like there's no way, you're going to survive. Um because the, you're going to survive. Um because the, you're going to survive. Um because the, crises are really bad. And the thing you, crises are really bad. And the thing you, crises are really bad. And the thing you, learn is that you generally do survive, learn is that you generally do survive, learn is that you generally do survive, these um and and that the world doesn't, these um and and that the world doesn't, these um and and that the world doesn't, usually end. And even if in the moment, usually end. And even if in the moment, usually end. And even if in the moment, something happens, you have no idea how, something happens, you have no idea how, something happens, you have no idea how, you're going to get around it., you're going to get around it., you're going to get around it., um you eventually figure out a way and, um you eventually figure out a way and, um you eventually figure out a way and, and because of that uh you know on the, and because of that uh you know on the, and because of that uh you know on the, 19th major crisis you're like well I, 19th major crisis you're like well I, 19th major crisis you're like well I, survived the first 18 I'll probably get, survived the first 18 I'll probably get, survived the first 18 I'll probably get, through this one and you kind of just do, through this one and you kind of just do, through this one and you kind of just do, definitely that rings true um so uh, definitely that rings true um so uh, definitely that rings true um so uh, switching into a bit topic of uh sort of, switching into a bit topic of uh sort of, switching into a bit topic of uh sort of, money and sort of the long-term view of, money and sort of the long-term view of, money and sort of the long-term view of, it and how people can think about it, it and how people can think about it, it and how people can think about it, most clearly. Um I'm actually going to, most clearly. Um I'm actually going to, most clearly. Um I'm actually going to, start with a quick story uh that I think, start with a quick story uh that I think, start with a quick story uh that I think, illustrates a bit of sort of your views., illustrates a bit of sort of your views., illustrates a bit of sort of your views., Um, this is from when we were very young, Um, this is from when we were very young, Um, this is from when we were very young, and our grandma gave us each some stock., and our grandma gave us each some stock., and our grandma gave us each some stock., Oh, this is a good story. In a company., Oh, this is a good story. In a company., Oh, this is a good story. In a company., All right, you can tell this one. Okay., All right, you can tell this one. Okay., All right, you can tell this one. Okay., Uh, so she gave us each some stock in a, Uh, so she gave us each some stock in a, Uh, so she gave us each some stock in a, company that she thought we would like., company that she thought we would like., company that she thought we would like., Um, and so as you like to point out, I, Um, and so as you like to point out, I, Um, and so as you like to point out, I, was heavier as a child and one of the, was heavier as a child and one of the, was heavier as a child and one of the, things I liked was Applebee's and you, things I liked was Applebee's and you, things I liked was Applebee's and you, were hacking away on computers and one, were hacking away on computers and one, were hacking away on computers and one, of the things you liked was Apple. And, of the things you liked was Apple. And, of the things you liked was Apple. And, so we each got an equal amount of Apple, so we each got an equal amount of Apple, so we each got an equal amount of Apple, and Applebee's. This is like 20 years, and Applebee's. This is like 20 years, and Applebee's. This is like 20 years, ago. We were like 20 years ago. And I, ago. We were like 20 years ago. And I, ago. We were like 20 years ago. And I, think neither of us has sold it. In, think neither of us has sold it. In, think neither of us has sold it. In, fact, you nicely brought me my, fact, you nicely brought me my, fact, you nicely brought me my, Applebee's stock back from St. Louis, Applebee's stock back from St. Louis, Applebee's stock back from St. Louis, recently. um your stock certificates so, recently. um your stock certificates so, recently. um your stock certificates so, long ago it was still paper certificates, long ago it was still paper certificates, long ago it was still paper certificates, and I think inflation adjusted I've, and I think inflation adjusted I've, and I think inflation adjusted I've, probably lost half my value there, probably lost half my value there, probably lost half my value there, whereas I think your Apple has gone up, whereas I think your Apple has gone up, whereas I think your Apple has gone up, something like I don't even want to, something like I don't even want to, something like I don't even want to, think about it uh hundreds hundreds of, think about it uh hundreds hundreds of, think about it uh hundreds hundreds of, yeah it's been a lot um how do you think, yeah it's been a lot um how do you think, yeah it's been a lot um how do you think, about sort of the long-term willingness, about sort of the long-term willingness, about sort of the long-term willingness, uh to hold on to things what are the, uh to hold on to things what are the, uh to hold on to things what are the, advantages somebody has early in their, advantages somebody has early in their, advantages somebody has early in their, career um how should people think about, career um how should people think about, career um how should people think about, money when they're young yeah you know I, money when they're young yeah you know I, money when they're young yeah you know I, still have those uh Apple shares marked, still have those uh Apple shares marked, still have those uh Apple shares marked, in my brokerage account as grandma's, in my brokerage account as grandma's, in my brokerage account as grandma's, birthday apple shares if I ever sold one, birthday apple shares if I ever sold one, birthday apple shares if I ever sold one, no I'm good. I'm gonna keep them. I, no I'm good. I'm gonna keep them. I, no I'm good. I'm gonna keep them. I, should benchmark them against, should benchmark them against, should benchmark them against, Applebee's. Um, so I I think that one of, Applebee's. Um, so I I think that one of, Applebee's. Um, so I I think that one of, the few arbitrage opportunities left in, the few arbitrage opportunities left in, the few arbitrage opportunities left in, the market is time. I think we have, the market is time. I think we have, the market is time. I think we have, gotten really good at high frequency, gotten really good at high frequency, gotten really good at high frequency, trading. Um, we have gotten really good, trading. Um, we have gotten really good, trading. Um, we have gotten really good, at the price of things and we've gotten, at the price of things and we've gotten, at the price of things and we've gotten, worse at the long-term value., worse at the long-term value., worse at the long-term value., And I I don't think you can go beat the, And I I don't think you can go beat the, And I I don't think you can go beat the, market in a lot of ways. Um, but the one, market in a lot of ways. Um, but the one, market in a lot of ways. Um, but the one, way I do is is by making a long-term, way I do is is by making a long-term, way I do is is by making a long-term, commitment to something. I think, commitment to something. I think, commitment to something. I think, that I my new belief on how long I, that I my new belief on how long I, that I my new belief on how long I, should hold stock in the best companies, should hold stock in the best companies, should hold stock in the best companies, I invest in is forever. Um, and I think, I invest in is forever. Um, and I think, I invest in is forever. Um, and I think, you know, in a world where people are, you know, in a world where people are, you know, in a world where people are, increasingly focused on the tick and the, increasingly focused on the tick and the, increasingly focused on the tick and the, quarterly earning cycle, you should try, quarterly earning cycle, you should try, quarterly earning cycle, you should try, and go in the other direction. And this, and go in the other direction. And this, and go in the other direction. And this, is a great way to generate value and, is a great way to generate value and, is a great way to generate value and, wealth. Uh and and so I think that when, wealth. Uh and and so I think that when, wealth. Uh and and so I think that when, you're thinking about a startup, uh it's, you're thinking about a startup, uh it's, you're thinking about a startup, uh it's, really worthwhile to think about, really worthwhile to think about, really worthwhile to think about, something you're willing to make a very, something you're willing to make a very, something you're willing to make a very, long-term commitment to because that is, long-term commitment to because that is, long-term commitment to because that is, where the current void in the market is., where the current void in the market is., where the current void in the market is., Um I I, Um I I, Um I I, think you know you get paid as a founder, think you know you get paid as a founder, think you know you get paid as a founder, for the wealth you create for other, for the wealth you create for other, for the wealth you create for other, people. So there's this view of the, people. So there's this view of the, people. So there's this view of the, world that um business is all about like, world that um business is all about like, world that um business is all about like, trying to steal money and sometimes, trying to steal money and sometimes, trying to steal money and sometimes, that's true but but the the best, that's true but but the the best, that's true but but the the best, companies just create massive amounts of, companies just create massive amounts of, companies just create massive amounts of, value for the world and then they, value for the world and then they, value for the world and then they, capture some of that for themselves but, capture some of that for themselves but, capture some of that for themselves but, they capture far less than they create, they capture far less than they create, they capture far less than they create, and they do it over a very long period, and they do it over a very long period, and they do it over a very long period, of time. So if you're going to be one of, of time. So if you're going to be one of, of time. So if you're going to be one of, those companies um I think you want to, those companies um I think you want to, those companies um I think you want to, make a super long-term commitment to, make a super long-term commitment to, make a super long-term commitment to, yourself and others that are going to, yourself and others that are going to, yourself and others that are going to, work on it with you that this is going, work on it with you that this is going, work on it with you that this is going, to take a long time. Um, but it is worth, to take a long time. Um, but it is worth, to take a long time. Um, but it is worth, waiting because you will make far more, waiting because you will make far more, waiting because you will make far more, money over the long horizon um by doing, money over the long horizon um by doing, money over the long horizon um by doing, this company really well than a bunch of, this company really well than a bunch of, this company really well than a bunch of, short-term things along the way. So, how, short-term things along the way. So, how, short-term things along the way. So, how, much do you think people should have, much do you think people should have, much do you think people should have, strong opinions about things versus, strong opinions about things versus, strong opinions about things versus, putting something into the world, putting something into the world, putting something into the world, iterating and sort of finding out, iterating and sort of finding out, iterating and sort of finding out, whatever works and going with that? I, whatever works and going with that? I, whatever works and going with that? I, think you want a combination of those, think you want a combination of those, think you want a combination of those, two things. You want want to have a, two things. You want want to have a, two things. You want want to have a, strong opinion and then be flexible, strong opinion and then be flexible, strong opinion and then be flexible, about the details. So the thing I don't, about the details. So the thing I don't, about the details. So the thing I don't, think works that often are the startups, think works that often are the startups, think works that often are the startups, on their 11th pivot that are totally, on their 11th pivot that are totally, on their 11th pivot that are totally, unrelated. Um but I put a big difference, unrelated. Um but I put a big difference, unrelated. Um but I put a big difference, between refinement and pivoting. So when, between refinement and pivoting. So when, between refinement and pivoting. So when, you start with a strong belief um you, you start with a strong belief um you, you start with a strong belief um you, know we should have a social graph and, know we should have a social graph and, know we should have a social graph and, an online directory um that is Facebook, an online directory um that is Facebook, an online directory um that is Facebook, has stayed pretty similar to that, has stayed pretty similar to that, has stayed pretty similar to that, although the product itself has changed, although the product itself has changed, although the product itself has changed, a lot along the way and I think that's, a lot along the way and I think that's, a lot along the way and I think that's, really good that is a strong idea um, really good that is a strong idea um, really good that is a strong idea um, with flexibility in the implementation, with flexibility in the implementation, with flexibility in the implementation, and I think that's much better than the, and I think that's much better than the, and I think that's much better than the, we're just going to keep trying random, we're just going to keep trying random, we're just going to keep trying random, ideas because we want to have a startup., ideas because we want to have a startup., ideas because we want to have a startup., Um I I think strong strong opinions, Um I I think strong strong opinions, Um I I think strong strong opinions, about the future are really important, about the future are really important, about the future are really important, and I think uh one of the things that I, and I think uh one of the things that I, and I think uh one of the things that I, have noticed among the most interesting, have noticed among the most interesting, have noticed among the most interesting, the most successful people that I spend, the most successful people that I spend, the most successful people that I spend, time with is that they have strong, time with is that they have strong, time with is that they have strong, opinions strongly held about the future., opinions strongly held about the future., opinions strongly held about the future., They are willing to be convinced with, They are willing to be convinced with, They are willing to be convinced with, new data that they are wrong but the bar, new data that they are wrong but the bar, new data that they are wrong but the bar, for that is fairly high. And this idea, for that is fairly high. And this idea, for that is fairly high. And this idea, that the future is fundamentally, that the future is fundamentally, that the future is fundamentally, unknowable. I I've never liked actually, unknowable. I I've never liked actually, unknowable. I I've never liked actually, I I remember pretty clearly this time, I I remember pretty clearly this time, I I remember pretty clearly this time, where I was sort of like spouting advice, where I was sort of like spouting advice, where I was sort of like spouting advice, someone else had given me in high school, someone else had given me in high school, someone else had given me in high school, or college about how you in you know you, or college about how you in you know you, or college about how you in you know you, need to diversify in investing because, need to diversify in investing because, need to diversify in investing because, the world is unknown, unknowable and so, the world is unknown, unknowable and so, the world is unknown, unknowable and so, all you can do is have the most balanced, all you can do is have the most balanced, all you can do is have the most balanced, possible portfolio. And I remember that, possible portfolio. And I remember that, possible portfolio. And I remember that, I was saying that out loud. Someone else, I was saying that out loud. Someone else, I was saying that out loud. Someone else, had said it to me probably grandma. Uh, had said it to me probably grandma. Uh, had said it to me probably grandma. Uh, and and I realized that I really didn't, and and I realized that I really didn't, and and I realized that I really didn't, agree with that at all. Um because I had, agree with that at all. Um because I had, agree with that at all. Um because I had, strong opinions and then I knew that, strong opinions and then I knew that, strong opinions and then I knew that, there were some companies whose stock, there were some companies whose stock, there were some companies whose stock, I'd rather own than others. And I knew, I'd rather own than others. And I knew, I'd rather own than others. And I knew, that I would rather uh like own stock, that I would rather uh like own stock, that I would rather uh like own stock, than own bonds. Um because I thought, than own bonds. Um because I thought, than own bonds. Um because I thought, technology was going to be worth a lot, technology was going to be worth a lot, technology was going to be worth a lot, more. I have different ideas today about, more. I have different ideas today about, more. I have different ideas today about, the next 10 or 20 years. Um but I think, the next 10 or 20 years. Um but I think, the next 10 or 20 years. Um but I think, it's good. It's not only okay, it's good, it's good. It's not only okay, it's good, it's good. It's not only okay, it's good, to have strong ideas about the future., to have strong ideas about the future., to have strong ideas about the future., And it is okay to not be super, And it is okay to not be super, And it is okay to not be super, diversified in your investment portfolio, diversified in your investment portfolio, diversified in your investment portfolio, or your career or your life. And then, or your career or your life. And then, or your career or your life. And then, the final question is if you could leave, the final question is if you could leave, the final question is if you could leave, young people who want to have a big, young people who want to have a big, young people who want to have a big, impact with one or two pieces of advice, impact with one or two pieces of advice, impact with one or two pieces of advice, what would you tell them? Well, I I, what would you tell them? Well, I I, what would you tell them? Well, I I, don't want to give people a specific, don't want to give people a specific, don't want to give people a specific, field to go work on. Um because I think, field to go work on. Um because I think, field to go work on. Um because I think, the whole idea is that people need to, the whole idea is that people need to, the whole idea is that people need to, figure out themselves what they believe, figure out themselves what they believe, figure out themselves what they believe, in and what they think and what they, in and what they think and what they, in and what they think and what they, believe is high impact to work on for, believe is high impact to work on for, believe is high impact to work on for, the future. Um so what I will say, the future. Um so what I will say, the future. Um so what I will say, instead is it is really important to, instead is it is really important to, instead is it is really important to, actually think hard about where you, actually think hard about where you, actually think hard about where you, think you can make the biggest, think you can make the biggest, think you can make the biggest, contribution that you're good at and the, contribution that you're good at and the, contribution that you're good at and the, world needs and that you enjoy and uh, world needs and that you enjoy and uh, world needs and that you enjoy and uh, then go meet people to work with. go, then go meet people to work with. go, then go meet people to work with. go, learn as much about that field as you, learn as much about that field as you, learn as much about that field as you, can and then have the the courage of, can and then have the the courage of, can and then have the the courage of, your convictions to actually take a risk, your convictions to actually take a risk, your convictions to actually take a risk, and focus on it and and go do something, and focus on it and and go do something, and focus on it and and go do something, there. Um, and that it's okay if you, there. Um, and that it's okay if you, there. Um, and that it's okay if you, fail and if you do fail, you'll not be, fail and if you do fail, you'll not be, fail and if you do fail, you'll not be, in much different of a place than you, in much different of a place than you, in much different of a place than you, are today and you can go try the next, are today and you can go try the next, are today and you can go try the next, thing. But it it's I think really, thing. But it it's I think really, thing. But it it's I think really, important to be willing to go take a, important to be willing to go take a, important to be willing to go take a, risk and make some amount of sacrifice, risk and make some amount of sacrifice, risk and make some amount of sacrifice, to be able to try to impact the world in, to be able to try to impact the world in, to be able to try to impact the world in, in some way that that you really care, in some way that that you really care, in some way that that you really care, about., about., about., And I think the sooner you get to work, And I think the sooner you get to work, And I think the sooner you get to work, on that, the better you'll you'll be., on that, the better you'll you'll be., on that, the better you'll you'll be., Awesome. All right. Well, Sam, thanks, Awesome. All right. Well, Sam, thanks, Awesome. All right. Well, Sam, thanks, very much.
