Timestamp: 2026-07-12T10:26:33.710558
Title: 马克・扎克伯格畅谈 AI 对就业的影响、政府监管，以及 Meta 智能眼镜如何重塑他的日常 BV1DAMx61ESa
URL: https://b23.tv/5hXSs5G
Status: success
Duration: 44:28

Description:
### 第一部分：文本分析

#### 1. 核心论点 (Argument)
智能眼镜（硬件）与广泛分发的“个人超级智能”（软件）相结合，将取代智能手机成为下一代主流计算平台；通过将AI技术权力赋予个体而非集中于单一实体，利用社会与市场的天然“制衡”机制，是确保人类AI未来安全、积极发展的最佳路径。

#### 2. 关键论据 (Evidence)
* **硬件迭代与合作**：Meta与眼镜巨头依视路陆逊梯卡（EssilorLuxottica）合作，成功将通话、高品质降噪、实时翻译和前沿多模态AI集成到时尚眼镜中。
* **用户体验与行为改变**：扎克伯格以自身体验（如在喷气滑艇上进行极其清晰的商务通话、日常减少手机依赖）佐证眼镜作为主力计算工具的可行性。
* **技术投资与研发**：Meta建立“超级智能实验室”大力推进Llama系列模型，并向Scale AI进行大额投资；利用AI模拟生物学的“Biohub”项目正在加速本世纪攻克疾病的进程。
* **历史规律**：个人电脑到智能手机的过渡证明了计算平台向“更自然、更融入现实、更赋能个体”演进的必然趋势。

#### 3. 逻辑论证 (Reasoning)
作者（扎克伯格）通过以下逻辑链条建立其论证：
1. **形式要素（Form Factor）决定体验**：眼镜是唯一能“看你所看、听你所听”的设备，能让用户在获取AI协助的同时保持与现实世界的连接，避免手机带来的社交割裂。
2. **去中心化（Decentralization）优于集权式AI**：人类历史证明绝对权力必然带来危害。因此，不应建造一个主导一切的“单一终极AI”，而应向每个人提供“个人超级智能（Personal Super Intelligence）”。
3. **竞争与制衡（Checks & Balances）保障安全**：当数以亿计的个人智能代理在市场与社会中相互博弈时，个体的恶行或偏失会被其他个体的智能代理天然地抵消和纠错，从而自发形成动态的安全网络。

---

#### 4. 敌对性审视 (Fair-But-Hostile Review)

##### (1) 最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)
* **“去中心化自发制衡”的安全悖论**：该论证完全建立在“全民武装AI等于自发和平”这一假设上。在现实中，信息的非对称性极强。如果一名恐怖分子或恶性攻击者利用被赋予的“超级智能”制造出新型生物武器（Bio-weapon）或对金融网络发起全域毁灭性打击，普通人即使拥有同样的超级智能也可能由于“攻击前置时间”过短而无法防御。**“自发制衡”在毁灭性、非对称性的破坏手段面前将彻底失效。**

##### (2) 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)
* **硬件物理限制被刻意淡化**：扎克伯格声称要在满足日常时尚的前提下，将高性能计算、多模态全天候感知、甚至宽视野全息投影（AR）全部塞进50g-70g的眼镜框内。目前尚无任何公开物理学数据能解决在此体积和重量下，电池续航、高强度发热和光学衍射的致命冲突。
* **开源安全的虚假类比**：他将“AI模型的开源安全”等同于“传统开源软件（如Linux）的安全性”。传统代码漏洞可以通过“发现-补丁”快速收敛；而深度学习大模型（LLM）的“越狱（Jailbreaking）”、社会工程学欺骗以及有害知识涌现，并不存在像传统软件那样的“可验证安全代码补丁”，开源反而可能向恶意分子无门槛地分发了“武器级”的提示词或模型参数。

##### (3) 未明示假设 (Unstated Assumptions)
* **假设Meta将永远保持“无私”的赋能者角色**：默认Meta控制硬件底座、操作平台和核心模型分发时，不会利用全天候第一人称视角（眼镜）获取的隐私数据进行新一轮的数据垄断、广告轰炸和舆论操纵。
* **假设公众完全容忍全天候社会监控（Surveillance）**：智能眼镜的摄像头和麦克风随时保持对准周围人群，该商业模式建立在“路人被迫让渡隐私权”这一未经许可的霸权假设之上。

---

### 第二部分：Mermaid 概念图谱

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    %% Node Definitions
    A["🤖 扎克伯格的AI与智能眼镜愿景"] --> B["🕶️ 智能眼镜：下一代计算平台"]
    A --> C["⚖️ 个人超级智能：去中心化安全哲学"]

    subgraph glass_sub["🕶️ 智能眼镜模块 (Smart Glasses)"]
        B --> B1["🤝 极致设计与时尚首要 (Luxottica合作)"]
        B --> B2["🎙️ 自然无感交互 (保持现实社交在线)"]
        B --> B3["👁️ 多模态环境感知 (看我所看，听我所听)"]
    end

    subgraph ai_sub["⚖️ 去中心化AI哲学 (Decentralized AI)"]
        C --> C1["🌟 个人超级智能 (Personal Super Intelligence)"]
        C --> C2["🔓 开源与广泛分发 (赋能个体而非垄断)"]
        C --> C3["🔄 社会与市场自发制衡 (Checks & Balances)"]
    end

    subgraph action_sub["🛠️ 产业布局支撑 (Meta Layout)"]
        B1 & C2 --> D1["Llama系列模型与超级智能实验室 (MIL)"]
        B2 --> D2["硬件轻量化突破 (目标 50g 舒适度)"]
        C1 --> D3["Biohub 医疗加速 (AI生物模拟)"]
    end

    %% Fair-But-Hostile Review Integration
    subgraph hostile_sub["🚩 敌对性审视与安全悖论 (Fair-But-Hostile)"]
        F1["⚡ 最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)"]
        F2["🔍 证据审计疑点 (Evidence Audit)"]
        F3["🕵️ 未明示假设 (Unstated Assumptions)"]

        F1 --> F1a["非对称破坏力：去中心化超级AI赋予恶人同等破坏力，自发制衡在毁灭性攻击前失效"]
        F2 --> F2a["硬件瓶颈：重量、热量及续航限制，5年内完美普及论过于乐观"]
        F2 --> F2b["开源安全不等式：AI越狱与知识涌现无法套用传统软件补丁逻辑"]
        F3 --> F3a["隐私死亡：全天候第一人称眼镜对周围人群隐私权彻底剥夺"]
        F3 --> F3b["隐性数据霸权：模型开源但底层算力、硬件分发和用户行为数据仍由Meta垄断"]
    end

    %% Logical conflicts / Critique connections
    C3 -.->|"致命挑战"| F1
    B3 -.->|"社会反弹"| F3a
    C2 -.->|"安全漏洞"| F2b
    D2 -.->|"物理极限"| F2a

    %% Styles
    classDef main fill:#FFF3BF,stroke:#C8A200,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#5C4800,font-weight:bold;
    classDef glass fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#1565C0,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#0D47A1;
    classDef ai fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#1B5E20;
    classDef action fill:#FFF3E0,stroke:#E65100,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#E65100;
    classDef hostile fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#C62828,stroke-width:2px,color:#B71C1C;

    class A main;
    class B,B1,B2,B3 glass;
    class C,C1,C2,C3 ai;
    class D1,D2,D3 action;
    class F1,F2,F3,F1a,F2a,F2b,F3a,F3b hostile;

    style glass_sub fill:#E1F5FE,stroke:#0288D1,stroke-width:1.5px;
    style ai_sub fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#4CAF50,stroke-width:1.5px;
    style action_sub fill:#FFF8E1,stroke:#FFB300,stroke-width:1.5px;
    style hostile_sub fill:#FFEAEA,stroke:#EF5350,stroke-width:2px;
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
What is the best way to ensure that we have a positive future if the technology development continues on its trajectory? In 2004, a young man at Harvard University's Kirkland House had an idea. Obsessed with the intersection of personal computing and social networking, Mark Zuckerberg pushed his personal programming project, then known as the Facebook, Live. And in that small act, revolutionize social media and change global culture forever. In the years that followed Zuckerberg would scale Facebook's audience and influence beyond his or anyone's wildest imagination. He would then leverage that success into a consolidation of power, rolling up a litany of other platforms, including Instagram, WhatsApp and Oculus, eventually renaming the parent company Meta. Throughout this meteoric rise, Zuckerberg and Meta would live up to the company's founding e-cokes, moving fast and breaking things. However, the winds would always outpace the missteps, and 22 years later, the once upstart iconoclad is now a global institution. On June 23, 2026 in New York City, we sat down with Zuckerberg for a special live taping of idea generation to discuss all of this, as well as the launch of his latest market leader, Meta's AI Glasses, and it all started with one idea. Hello, welcome everyone. Thank you for joining us for this live taping of idea generation. I think it goes without saying that there is not a creative entrepreneur on the planet who has been more responsible for crafting the reality that we all share than the gentleman. This is next to me, Mark Zuckerberg. Thank you. Thank you for joining us. Yeah, well, this is a big day for us, so thank you for doing this. This is great timing. Congrats on the launch. We are very excited for the announcements today. The new line of Meta Glasses, it's the first line of glasses that we've designed with our partner, Esseler Luxotica, from the ground up. This builds on the work that we've been doing with Raybann and Oakley and iconic brands, and it basically brings all of that functionality to a new line that we hope will be accessible to a lot more people, but it brings all of the functionality, including the most advanced AI models that we've built right into the glasses. We're very happy to be doing this. What is it about the form factor of glasses that draws you to think that that will be sort of the next version of the phone, maybe? Yeah, so I guess there's a few things overall that make us optimistic that glasses are the next computing platform. One is that you kind of have this trajectory over time where computing gets to be more natural and more integrated in our lives, and glasses just give you the opportunity to interact with technology but remain present with the people around you, which I think is a really fundamentally important thing that obviously phones don't do. When you interact with your phone, you're kind of interacting with this small rectangle that pulls you away from the world around you. You want to have technology be able to effectively fully integrate with the world around you. So that's a big one. Another piece is that glasses are the ideal form factor for you to be able to give an AI assistant that works for you, the ability to see what you see, hear what you hear, talk to you throughout the day, and eventually also in display information in your field of view, and be able to overlay things on the world around you. So that's something that you can get parts of that with other form factors. You might be able to, you know, if you have earbuds, maybe you can hear what you hear and maybe it can talk to you, but I think the visual part is going to be very important and obviously glasses are the ideal form factor for that. And then one more thing is just that glasses are very, it's a thing that people have, right? I mean, there's almost 2 billion people in the world where optical glasses already and billions more were sunglasses. So I kind of think we're at this moment now where it's kind of like, you know, everyone had smartphones and then you got smartphones came out and it just kind of became, it felt pretty clear that in 5 years or whatever all of the flip phones were going to be smartphones. And that's basically, you know, how I feel about glasses today. It's like, what is the reason why 5 years from now any of the glasses that people wear are not going to be able to have this kind of functionality to help people out throughout their day. It just doesn't quite make sense. So I think it's a very natural design that people are used to. How long ago did you have this revelation and sort of, you know, once you seize upon this idea, what are the dominoes that you have to start setting up? Well, I mean, we've been working on this, I think since 2014, right? I think the earliest part of our work on, you know, we started working on virtual reality and augmented reality and the notion is that, okay, virtual reality, you know, allows you to do something. You know, do some of the augmentation of the world in a somewhat larger form factor before you get into the one that people are going to wear every day. But some of the glasses that we've been working on, it's more than 10 years at this point. I think the partnership with Esseller Luxotica, you know, we've done multiple generations starting with the original Raybans that we did. And then just each year we've added more functionality. It's gotten to, you know, it adds more functionality to it. So now you can do phone calls, you can, you know, you listen to music, it has all this functionality to help people who might not be able to see. If someone can't hear well, it can amplify the hearing in their ears. Like all the different functionality just kind of add generation over generation. The AI keeps on getting better. No, I think we're going to be working on this for decades more. But I think this is like the next five years are going to be a really key period for this. You have had access to these probably longer than almost anyone on the planet. How have they changed your daily routine? The main thing that I notice is just there are a lot of things that you could do on your phone. But if you have glasses on, it's just better. All right, so being able to talk to like take phone calls and have your ear open and not occluded. So it's like, all right, I'm just walking down the street and you can like hear what's going on. I think that's really nice. The fact that the microphone is in the nose pad, so the clarity of the audio that it picks up is so high that you could literally be in a wind tunnel and it would sound completely clear to the person on the other side. I mean, I've taken business calls on like a jet ski, not often, but it just happened. And the other person could not tell that I was on it. It's great, right? It's good. You don't necessarily want to tell the other person that you're on a jet ski. So I think that kind of stuff is nice. But the main way that I think that this is going to work is that, you know, it's not like all the other computer platforms go away, right? When we started using phones, our computers didn't go away. We still have computers, but I don't know how many of you feel this way, but I'm often, I'm sitting at my desk, my computer's right there, but I still just reach for my phone to go send someone a message or something, right? Because it's just the phone has kind of become the primary platform. And I think similarly, glasses are going to be that. So I think as you can do more and more with the glasses, we'll just kind of be in a world where you'll have your phone with you, but it'll just kind of stay in the pocket more of the time. And then maybe eventually you'll leave it at home more of the time. But I don't think that, you know, in the next 10 years we're going to stop having phones or something like that. I just think that glasses are going to, each generation, become more and more the primary thing that we use and, you know, just be more integrated into our lives. Having started this in 2014, I know that META is very early, or it has been very early on the AI wave and, you know, responsible for a lot of like early machine learning in the 2018s, long before anyone in this crowd was interacting with an LLM. There have been revolutionary steps that have taken place in the last six months, 12 months. Totally. How has that changed sort of how you think about what is inside the glasses and how people will use them? So one of the neat things is that if you get the hardware package right, hardware is kind of slow. Right? So we've been planning like this generation of glasses for whatever, two years, whatever the cycle is for that. And, you know, we're planning the 2028 line of glasses now, right? And all that. Then you get all these releases in between that are basically just the AI getting better and better. So if you buy these glasses today, they're just going to keep on getting more and more useful for you as the AI becomes more powerful and able to do more things. So the biggest advances in the last couple of years, I'd say there's the simple one on multimodal understanding, right? So just being able to not just ask it a question, but actually have it be able to see what's going on around you and be able to kind of talk to you about that is quite helpful. And obviously language translation at this point is almost solved, right? So if the real time translation built into it, so you travel to another place, it can basically speak to you and then translate another language. But one of the things that I'm really excited about is the advance in the agentic AI. So what I guess I mean by that is moving away from this use pattern where you ask it a question and it's one question one answer, right? It's what I think this is going to evolve more towards is either you give it a task and it goes away and thinks and then comes back a bit later. Or you just have these live sessions where it's like I'm cooking, I'm baking something with my daughter and I'm terrible at this and I'm just trying to do it to hang out with my three-year-old who's into baking. And it can basically just, it's like no, really don't do that, do this instead. And it's like, okay, that's good, I don't even have to ask it, it's just watching, right? No, I think do not put the flour there. So that I think is really good. And basically as you tune the system, you can go from half an hour of the always on AI to an hour to two hours to eventually that's like just all day. And then that's a very different mode of using the AI where now, obviously you'll have control over how it's when you want it to be on and not. But you can see that pretty quickly I think we're going to get to the zone where you effectively have the ability for your AI to see what you see, hear what you hear, summarize that, help you out with all of these things throughout the day. And it's just kind of amazing when you plug this stuff into an AI, how much of the signal that we have throughout our day that we just kind of miss or we tune stuff out because we're focused on something but there's something else happening that was important or someone said something in a conversation. So the ability to have that kind of memory or be able to help you in all these ways is going to be incredibly important. How do you sort of normalize because there are, this does allow you to be present but it is somewhat intrusive in your life and particularly if it is helping you and actively engaging in everything you're seeing. Well, you want to make sure, I think, so our mantra for designing the glasses is that they have to be great glasses first. I guess what we mean is that the technology is secondary, the fashion and the wearing it is actually primary, which is kind of, it was an interesting thing for us to get there as a technology company because I think all of most of the technology companies think about it as like, all right, we're trying to cram all this technology into it. It's like, this shape looks kind of like the glasses that they put out, like, why won't people wear this? But I think the reality is that you're going to wear the glasses, whatever glasses you have, you're going to wear it for many hours and you're going to use the technology for some small fraction of it. And it's actually really important, so in order to unlock that, it needs to be that the glasses are something that you're proud to wear and they need to be comfortable so that way you'll wear them for long periods of time. So they have to be great glasses first. Part of that also means getting out of the way, right? So I think a lot of technology companies kind of have the vision of, oh, well, we can help you here and we can help you here and we can help you here. And like, okay, let's just kind of like bombard you with stuff and it's like, people don't want that. I don't want that, right? It's like, I think you actually want it to be very sparing in terms of when it will ping you or interrupt you on something. So that's kind of the way that we think about it is great glasses first, technology available when you want it with more and more capabilities, but we really don't want it to be intrusive. I was watching an interview that you gave, I guess, the last fall around the release of the latest Raybans. And you're just sort of talking about your vision for AI in general and how you were trying to articulate, I guess, the idea that there would be sort of bespoke models than that people would sort of curate their own sort of suite of AI that they use. And I'm curious a year later, because there has been quite a bit of innovation in the field, is that still how you see it all playing out? Yeah, so our vision for what we're trying to build on the AI side, we call personal super intelligence. And the idea, I think it's very different from what the kind of consensus view of all of the other AI labs is. I think most other companies that are working on AI think that there's going to be like one big AI that everyone uses or that it's kind of like a big AI. Or that it's kind of like doing stuff for the world. And maybe this is just the legacy that we have from the history of the company building social media. It's all about building tools, putting them in people's hands, believing that people should have agency to use the tools and express the things that they want to. And that there's fundamentally this view, I think that in order to have a good future with a strong AI, you want a lot of checks and balances. So I don't want to live in a future where there's like one big AI. I think that's a bad future. No matter how good the AI is, I think like that's not good. I think the way that this ends up being good is you actually just, you direct the technology development towards empowering every individual. And the reality is that individuals, people have different aspirations, and the aspirations sometimes overlap with each other, and sometimes they compete with each other. And that competition is important because that is sort of the society and markets way of putting checks and balances on the way that things work. And I think in a world where kind of everyone has a personal super intelligence that has the context that you want it to have, because you have whatever devices you have that can give it the context that you wanted to have about your life. And it can help you achieve your goals and work on your behalf 24-7. And as many people around the world as possible have that, to me that's the best shot that we have of the world. That's the best shot that we have of getting to a future that is really good. And that world I think people are empowered, but also you kind of have a fundamental kind of check on this, and there's a balance of power and how that works. So I think that that I think is just a very fundamental thing for our philosophy, and everything that we're developing from the kind of AI software and the models and the technology to the idea of the hardware and the glasses and different things that we'll make to make sure that we're developing. And I think that the hardware and the glasses and different things that we'll make to make it so people can use this in different ways, it's kind of all in service of that philosophy. You mentioned the sort of checks and balances and the importance of that. I don't know if you're familiar with the book that came out last fall. If anyone builds it, everyone dies. I'm a bit curious. Do you think that there's any credence to that kind of, you know, humor concern around the implications of AI? I guess I'm not as familiar with that book, but I mean, but I think the concept of kind of AI safety is obviously a very important one. Right. So I guess I'm a little more optimistic than that. I don't think if anyone builds it, everyone will die. But I do think that there are anything that is a powerful new technology gives people the ability to do good things, and it can give people the ability to do bad things. And the more powerful the lever that you're giving people, the more good and the more harm that they can potentially do. So obviously taking that very seriously and working to mitigate the harm while making it as positive as possible for people is incredibly important. But that's where you get to this philosophy that I was talking about, which is what is the best way to ensure that we have a positive future if the technology development continues on its trajectory? I think some people would say, okay, what you want to do is build this singular AI and make it like as aligned as possible. And I just, I don't know that that's going to be enough. Right. I think like, because I think the reality is this, if you have one thing that is super powerful, I don't know. I mean, there have been a lot of like, you know, people or, you know, regimes that get absolute power over time, and that usually just doesn't end well. No matter how enlightened the thing is, and I think humans are limited in our ability to build enlightenment into a thing no matter how hard we try. So I kind of think that there is a natural mechanism that humanity and civilization has, which are checks and balances. So my version of this in terms of creating a positive future is not that you have one central thing, but I think it's like you really need it to be widely distributed. And in some ways it's somewhat of a controversial concept, because I think some people would say, oh, well, if you give a very, like, a model or an AI that has a lot of capabilities to individuals, won't they do bad things. But I don't know, I think that this has always been a historical tension between liberty and empowering individuals and how you build society. And I think at every step along the way, we tend to, you know, benefit when we try to like go for giving people more freedom and more agency and not saying, oh, this is too much for a person to handle. We want people to have the individual agency to do that. And I think that that's the path to a better future. So I think we do that. I'm pretty optimistic about the future. But I don't know, different people are trying to build different things. So I hope our vision is the one that gets built. I'm curious because, you know, you were obviously instrumental in the creation of social media as we know it. And obviously dealt with second and third order consequences, some surprising and positive, some that had to be mitigated. With AI, what are the things on the horizon that you think people are not expecting that will sort of enliven society or, you know, present potential dangers? Yeah, so I guess the ones that most people are focused on right now is you're having this huge ability for the AI to be able to code, which is helpful, because even for people who are not engineers, there's just a lot of coding that you want it to be able to do. So it's like, I don't know, I put this agent, I like put cameras up in my MMA gym, and I'm like, all right, can you just watch me and like give me feedback in between the people. And then I'm like, well, I'm just gonna show you how to do the kind of video pipeline of processing all the image frames that come in and piping that in and figuring out when I'm in between rounds and sending me the thing. So obviously the better that stuff gets at coding, the better it gets at being able to, you know, you get more cybersecurity threats. So I think that's obviously one of the big topics now. I think one of the things on the horizon that I think we're gonna start seeing more scientific advances. So my philanthropic work outside of meta, Priscilla and I created this thing Biohub, where our goal is to help advance the pace of scientific research in order to help scientists cure and prevent disease, like all diseases this century. And when we started that, we thought that that was like really ambitious. Okay, like cure and prevent all diseases this century. Now it's probably too conservative. Like, I think, like, I don't know if it's gonna be a decade or two decades or whatever, but I would guess it'll be much sooner than the end of the century when you get there. And I think a lot of that is because of the progress of building these AI models that can effectively simulate biology and therefore help with drug design and help with understanding of fundamental parts of biology and how to get the right equilibrium for how all that works. But, you know, the things that can create that, I think there's the concern that well, could someone who's bad use that to make things that hurt people, right, or create like a bioweapon or something. And I think that that's still an open question, but I think it's clearly a thing that really needs to be thought through carefully. And I think it's one of the things on the horizon that we need to be careful about. So those are probably the two in the next year or two that I think there's a path to unlock a huge amount of value and also, I think, a clear roadmap to mitigate some of the concerns, but also pretty big concerns that I think you want to be careful about. And then, you know, once you get beyond that, I think you start getting into these broader societal questions around like the balance of power and stuff that we talked about a minute ago that I think are just gonna be really fundamental. You know, people talk about stuff like, obviously, there's a lot of anxiety about job displacement. Companies are always trying to do things more efficiently, right? It's like, I'm sure you do, right? If you have a task, you don't want to just keep on doing the same task. You try to find a way to, you know, do it more efficiently. And at the same time, people are people kind of improve their own productivity. Well, there's a natural balance of this stuff, right? So if companies get very good at automating stuff faster than individuals get better at productivity, then you kind of assume that they're not going to be able to do it. You'd kind of assume that the number of jobs might decrease. But I think that people assume that that's inevitability. I don't actually think it is. I think if you focus on empowering people and making people more productive, and that happens at a faster rate than companies get better at automating things, then in theory, there should be more jobs in the future or not less. So, I think that that's why, like, you need this balance, right? If, like, if you just have a few companies and they're focused on automating all knowledge work, then, like, all right, I don't know. That's probably not a great future, right? If you have, like, a balance where some companies are focused on making it so that companies can work more efficiently, but others are, you know, focused on more of this personal super intelligence vision, where you're, like, empowering individuals and making people more productive at each step along the way, then, like, I think it's probably going to be pretty good. So, I don't know. I think that this is just all stuff that you want to think through and be careful about. But, um, but I think that there is a path forward that can be very positive on this. You mentioned the cyber security thing, which obviously everyone's talking about with anthropic having to roll back mythos, and I'm curious because you've obviously worked with the federal government as an advisor. How do you think we should move forward with, you know, these sort of frontier models? You know, different concerns have different answers for them, but, you know, if you take the jobs, one, that we were just talking about, my philosophy on this tends to be that more of the answer will come from, putting the power into more people's hands rather than holding it back. There's kind of the spectrum from, there are going to be a set of people who are going to argue, this is really dangerous, we must be the only ones who have this. And then there's a set of people who will say, no, this is powerful, and there's some issues, but, like, the answer is to make it so that this can be widely available, and people will effectively check each other. I think that different issues will have different balances of where you want to be on that. But I think our kind of instincts and philosophy as a company are more on the side of empowering individuals in thinking that more of the answers you get to a better state if you basically put the power in more people's hands. I definitely think that that's true on jobs, I think that's probably true on cybersecurity, right? I mean, if you think about stuff like open source software, it tends to be way more secure. It's somewhat counterintuitive, right? I mean, people thought early on, okay, open source, like, people can see the code, so that means that they can find the vulnerabilities more. This has got to be less safe, right? But kind of counterintuitively, okay, if more people can see the code, and then people find the vulnerabilities, then you fix the vulnerabilities, and then you can roll out the open source, like, you can kind of roll out the patches for that widely, and then you end up with much more hardened software. So I kind of think for all of this, what you want is just like, harden it very quickly. I hope that we will get to a point with AI where you can write verifiably secure code that the AI can basically make it so that people can write code, whether it's, you know, whatever home automation thing I was just talking about or whatever people are doing in their own lives. And they can basically have the AI help them write code that is verifiably secure, so that way you kind of eliminate most of those issues. You made a fairly large bet on AI with your, I think it's about $14 billion investment in scale AI and hiring Alexander Wang a year ago. Are you happy with where Meta is in the AI race, and where do you plan to be a year from now? I mean, I'm never happy with where we are. So I think that that's how is it working for me? No, it's, I think the guys in the front row, it's like, it's a pretty good day. You launch something good, back to work tomorrow. No, I mean, look, we're making a lot of progress. We'd had these run of these llama models, and unfortunately the llama 4 model was not in the trajectory we needed to be. So we did this pretty big thing to reboot the lab and kind of build it up. And if you'd asked me a year ago, the new, the kind of new lab that we built is less than a year old at this point. It's, I think it was June 30th that we got it, that we, that we, that we started the, uh, Meta super intelligence labs. If you told me that we'd be where we are today in terms of the model progress, I would have been very happy with that. But because I have acclimated to the good news along the way, I now think that we should be, um, doing even better. So, so that's, um, so anyway, that's, that's, that's kind of more my, um, my personality. But the, I think the, the industry is doing is kind of making good progress. I'm, I'm quite happy with it. I'm, I'm quite happy with the glasses. I think is, is sort of, you know, it's not just about you build a model in a lab. I think the question is like, what are the ways that this can actually be something that is useful in people's lives? And we have a few form factors for this already. You have the like AI assistant to an app on your phone or on your computer and that's cool. When you're, when you're doing that, obviously very useful. You have like a billion people are more doing that. Um, but I just think that you want to get it to a point where it's like more ambient and woven into your life. And I think one of the things that we've learned is that a lot of the AI products that are out there today are not very personalized yet. They're starting to, you know, build, understand some stuff from the context of previous conversations. But the reality is, is that like most of the stuff about you is not like, it doesn't exist in conversations that you've had with your AI. I think like, if you want to get to this vision around personal super intelligence and something that can ambiently help you throughout your day, I think devices like glasses are going to end up being really critical to that. So that's one of the reasons why we've been working on this for a long time. And I think this is like one of the things that I'm most proud of that we're doing is it's a very novel intellectual contribution, I think. And that it's, you know, I don't think that many other companies are really focused on fusing frontier AI with like really good design that are something that you just want to wear. You presently have about 80% of the market share in the AI system glasses. Some competitors have stepped into the ring in the last week or so with announcements. What are your thoughts about them as a fairly competitive person? Yeah, I mean, look, it's early. So, I mean, we're, and I think a lot of other companies are going to do this because we've, I think, meta and SLR Luxotic have shown that this works. Yes. Right. So, I think we've tried a lot of things that didn't work, right? And, like, and basically, in this one, I think clearly works and now it is natural and normal that when you kind of have something like that now kind of the industry will kind of focus on that. And we have quite a technological lead on this. So, I feel really excited about the stuff that's coming up over the coming years. But there's a lot to invent, right? So, you know, part of this, what we're talking about here, the kind of glasses that can see and hear and talk to you. There's obviously the kind of visual side of it with the displays. So, we started rolling out the meta-ray band displays last year with the small display. We've shown the basic, like, the prototype version of the kind of full wide field of view display. It's incredible. And, I mean, it's like magical. It's a little heavier than we'd like it to be for a, you know, we try to get to like- It's considered. It's pretty impressive. Thank you. Yeah, I mean, it's- I also, I mean, that one we worked on for like 10 years, the prototype. It's cool. We want to get it down to about 50 grams, you know, maybe 60 grams or maybe even 70 grams to start. But, you know, the real target for what we think is like all-day comfort is probably closer to 50 grams. And you also, I mean, people want a variety of different styles. Like, people like different things. So, some people like very thin glasses, some people like chunkier glasses. Chunky glasses are helpful for putting a lot of technology into, right? But- but there's limits on that too, right? And- and there's going to be this spectrum of things that people are going to want from- Some people, I think, will want kind of very minimal technology, very light. And then some people, I think, are going to want the kind of- the full immersive, like wide field of view holograms. You can like, you know, sit down at a coffee shop and have like three huge monitors up in front of you, or you're like, you're on a plane and you just have like a huge wide field of view TV display that doesn't physically exist. But it's there and like, that's going to be awesome. But yeah, I think that there are going to be different points on the spectrum that people want for what functionality they want to have. And also different price points. So, the more technology you put into it, the- it'll be a little thicker, which we think we can make stylish, but that will take some time to get the miniaturization to be very good. And also, the more technology you put in, the more expensive it is. So, people will make decisions based on fashion, the functionality, and the price point that they want. But there is a lot to do here, and I think it's- we're taking a pretty maximalist approach of like trying to- I guess we just think that like, you know, glasses are not a phone. People do not want the same kind of brick as a phone. This is like a very fundamental part of your expression of who you are and what you wear on a day-to-day basis. So, like, you need to cover a lot of space in terms of options in order to really serve the market. You mentioned these working and trying things sometimes that don't work. And, you know, you've made a number of large bets during the course of your career, all of which have been backseat driven by the media from, you know, acquiring Instagram, what's app, to the Metavort, I'm curious, what do you think is the sort of acceptable ratio of working to not work? I don't know if it's a- Nobody bets a thousand. What's up? Well, yeah, no, definitely not. I think the question is how much you win when you win. Like Walter Isaacson wrote this biography of Einstein, and like one of the things that I thought was the most interesting is like all the theories he had that were wrong. And it's like when you look back on his life, people don't tend to remember those, right? It's like, I think it's like we're all going to get a lot of stuff wrong. I think what matters are the intellectual contributions or, you know, cultural contributions that we make that help push stuff forward. So, I don't know. I think there's like a lot of analogies. You can, you know, pick a fighting analogy or something. It's like, all right, you get knocked down a bunch. Like, what really matters is how many times do you keep trying, right? Get up and keep going. I think we have a pretty resilient company that is not very afraid of failure. And that allows us to take some big swings and also tolerate being ridiculed for long periods of time. Because to some degree, if you're trying to do something that's really new, people have to think it's ridiculous for some period of time. Because if they didn't, then someone else would have already done it. It would already be in the over-tend window. So you're fundamentally trying to do things that people think are weird or like a little crazy. And, you know, you obviously try to do it in a way that is as grounded as possible. But I kind of think if you're not pushing it and people don't think what you're doing is a little wild, then, I know, you're probably just not taking enough. You're probably not swinging hard enough. Mix like 18 metaphors in that answer. If you bat 300, you're going to the All-Star game. You know, 330, you're Hall of Fame. Yeah, I mean, I think the thing, though, about creation is that in baseball, the maximum that you can do is get a home run. And, you know, your first-based, second-based, you can go for, right? In creation, the upside is almost infinite. It's not like you're not, you can do stuff, you can hit singles, or you can build something that billions of people use. And it's just not linear. You can, like, if you end up building something that hundreds of millions or billions of people like, then that ends up making up for a lot of ideas that didn't end up working that well. Now, but I think that that's fine. Like, it's also, this is all part of the process. I don't even think that the things that don't work aren't even necessarily failures as much as they are just ways that you are learning on the way to something that will work. You know, there's lots of ways that we all learn. You know, there's kind of a market-based way where, you know, there's often a lot of different startups that do things. But in hardware, one of the things that's complicated is that it's kind of expensive to take shots, right? So, part of what we've wanted to do is, you know, before we got into building these kind of glasses, there weren't a lot of companies that were doing this. So, a lot of the experimentation we basically did by just doing a lot of different types of things and seeing what worked and doubling down on those things and trying to incorporate the things that seemed promising, but maybe there was, like, you know, some product that we were doing, but there was something promising in it, but then a bunch of other things that made it not feel that good overall. If you take the promising thing, you kind of incorporate into something else and you keep going. So, I don't know. I think that's just, this is all, like, how you learn. Well, you talk about sort of the scale of creation being infinite and, you know, in a position that you have been for the last 20 years, you make decisions that impact people in ways that are much bigger than most CEOs, and, in fact, probably more akin to, you know, leaders of global powers. How much does that pressure cost you? I think different people are wired differently. Making decisions that are high stakes but are based on ideas that I believe in has never been something that has stressed me out that much. The thing that stresses me out, part of the joy of building things is doing it with people, right? So, like, no one's doing this in a vacuum. And I think a lot of how I define what is meaningful in my own life and what I want to do in my careers, I want to work with people who are the best at what they do and try to work with them in new areas. It's one of the reasons why, you know, I think designing the glasses has been so fun because I wasn't like a fashion person, right? But now it's like, but I have so much to learn, right? So we work with, you know, it's companies that are great. The Kessler Luxotic is the best glasses company in the world. And we've learned so much working with them. And I think that they've learned stuff from us on the technology side. It's been awesome as a partnership. And, you know, working with more folks in fashion and the work that we've gotten to do on Instagram, it's really fun. I do this, I try to do it in my personal life with different hobbies, some of which, you know, we've talked about designing, you know, designing jewelry for my wife, whatever. You know, it's like designing different things. I think all that stuff, it's really fun to just work with people who are the best at what they do to learn. The most stressful thing for me is when working with the people isn't fun. So I think if you don't feel like you have, like, good alignment, then that is, that's actually the thing that really, like, stresses me out. But taking big bets on things that I believe in philosophically, I don't know, maybe that's just like how I'm wired. But like, I'm fine with that. I'm fine knowing that, like, my idea could be wrong and it could hurt if it ends up being wrong. But like, I'm just wired in a way where I almost have to do what I believe, and it will hurt me more to not do that thing than it will be to stress or perseverate on, like, whether I can, you know, afford to do it. It's like, no, it's just, that's just like kind of my constitution on that. Is there anyone who's taste or instinct you trust equal to or greater than your own? There's a lot of people I trust more than my instinct. I think I trust my instinct on, like, kind of aesthetic or philosophy of what a good future would be. But in almost any area that we work in, you know, the people who are working on that thing are spending way more time on it than I am, right? Just because I'm working on a lot of different projects. So, I mean, I think whether it's a partner who I'm working on a project with or, you know, the team's internally, I mean, to some degree, it's like they better have better taste on that than me or else, like, what are we even doing? Right, it's having, like, I'll just do it myself. So, yeah. What is your process to educate yourself when you enter into a space that you want to learn about? I think it's more just immersion. So, it's not a formal process of, like, oh, I'm going to go and ask, like, these 20 questions or something. It's just like, let's go find someone who I like working with or multiple people, because I think most of these projects, they are, like, very intense and they're long-term things. So, I think doing it with a group of people who you don't just like, right? It was actually very good advice that I got early on at, you know, I was building the company. It was like a young kid at the time, right? I started the company when I was 19, and I thought I should hire all these, like, people who had a lot of professional experience and, like, didn't click for some reason. And then one of our investors was like, just like, you should probably hire people who you think you'd want to be friends with, right? It's like, no, it's kind of, like, odd as advice, but you're going to spend so much time with these people that you kind of, you really need to like each other. So I think that that's probably like just the kind of identification of people who you think are going to be excellent who you want to learn from. I kind of have this rule for myself now, where I only want to hire someone to be on my team if in an alternate universe, I'd be okay working for them. And that doesn't mean that I'm trying to, like, I like running the company. So I'm not like, like, it's not, I'm not looking to flip the, to flip that around, but like, but I think in an alternate universe, I think like any of the people on our team, I think I'd learn a lot from it. I think they'd do very interesting things, and I feel like that would be kind of fun, right? And so I think you get that. You find the right people, and then you spend a lot of time. And I think there's probably some degree of humility, but that's probably trite to say, because I think the complexity is obviously in knowing which things you don't know and which things you do. And a lot of times these collaborations, it's not one way. It's not like you're working with someone who is the master and you're an apprentice. These are collaborations where you each have something to give, and you're trying to understand in what ways the values around, for example, designing glasses vary from the values around designing an app or other types of things. I mean, the values around designing a watch is different from the values around designing glasses, right? And I think that that's, like, so I think in each step, like each different area, what excellence is has some similarities in terms of kind of craft and attention to detail and boldness in terms of the aesthetic. But there are also subtle differences. Certain things need to be expressed more for different fields than others, and getting that balance right is values. And negotiating that is a very interesting thing, and I think it works a lot better when you like and trust the people. And so I think figuring that out is like a really key part of the whole thing. In addition to, you know, enjoying being around the people that you work with, I'm curious, you have been in this seat for now over 20 years. You have lived to see... It's been a different seat. Well, that's fair. Most of your apps either retire or, you know, fall by the wayside. And you have a lovely compound in Hawaii, and I'll round up here, but infinite money. What keeps you doing this and not just absconding to the island to hang out with the family and take her and make jewelry? Well, that is something that Priscilla asks me a lot, especially when stuff is hard. But, you know, it's kind of this funny thing. We have... One of our daughters is like, has the, I don't know, whatever it is, the gene where it's like you just have... You have a lot of creative output that you need to make. And honestly, until we had kids, I think Priscilla didn't fully understand like this element of how I was wired. I think she kind of thought that I was going to like just... I was going to do stuff for a while, and then at some point I'd like mellow out. But it's... I don't know what I'd do. It would be boring. I think it's like, you know, it's like I can rest for like a couple of days, right? Just like... Yeah, play computer games or something. You know, but I think after that it's just like there's just stuff that you want to put into the world. And... I don't know. That's kind of like that's how I'm wired. So I think it's important to get time to recharge and relax and like make sure that you're talking to different people. So you have good varied perspectives. Because if you go too deep on one thing for too long, you can kind of dry up the creative energy. But yeah, no, I don't know. I don't think I'm ever going to stop. I think it's just like I'll just find different things to do. But they're not, they don't all have to be... Consider your rough form. High stakes. I mean, it's like one... I mean, on the ranch, one of my projects is I'm trying to like create the highest quality beef in the world. It's like... It's very low stakes. Right? It's like I'm not selling it. I'm not... But it's like I'm like very into the genetics of the cattle where like, okay, we're trying to figure out like how do you make it so that you basically can deliver the highest density diet to them. We started growing macadamia trees because that kind of nut is like extremely dense and then you can... They will eat a lot so they will put on weight and become fat quicker and become delicious. But then it's like, all right, the macadamia nuts, they have a lot of oil so you need to actually roast that. So now we need to design this whole process to roast the nuts so that way you can give them to the cows. And then like, well, okay, but you want them to eat more. So then it's like, how do you get them to eat more? Well, it turns out alcohol is great, right, for that because what alcohol induces appetite. So, okay, so that's actually why like very high-end beef they're fed beer. But okay, what's the right balance of beer versus water? It's like, I don't know, let's let them choose. They get either as much cold beer as they want or as much room temperature water. And they can kind of balance that so now we're brewing all this beer and we're putting it out and it's like, I'm never going to stop. It doesn't matter how important or like or whatever the thing is. It's like, yeah, I'll do some projects that don't matter that much. But like, I don't know. How do you find time, three kids, wife, like nine companies and cattle farm that you're innovating on? I don't know. I actually think part of the balance is you need to find some balance of different things to work on. Because I think when you work on one thing too hard, you can like, you can burn it. And you can burn the people. And so I think that that's actually part of the thing that's one of the things that I struggle with because I can get obsessive. But I don't know. I think it's just like finding interesting projects to do with interesting people. It's like a it's a good life. Well, on that note, Mark, thank you so much for your time. Thank you. This is great. Thank you. Thank you.
