Timestamp: 2026-05-07T09:27:55.270284
Title: 🌞Sunny哥 - 还在节假日无脑刷抖音浪费时间？赶紧醒醒！别再浑浑噩噩虚度光阴了  挤出一小时，去啃顶级宏观交易员保罗的牛熊深度研判，完爆那些无营养短视频 ... 2051974561009401856
URL: https://x.com/BTC__Sunny/status/2051975221339656666?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 1:11:16

Description:
以下是对保罗·都铎·琼斯（Paul Tudor Jones, PTJ）访谈内容的深度解析：

---

### **第一部分：作者地图 (Author's Map)**

**1. 核心主张 (Core Thesis)**
成功的交易源于对市场趋势、流动性和极端风险的极致管理，但人生的真正价值在于通过“微小的善举”产生复利效应，从而实现社会改良与个人意义的统一。

**2. 证据基础 (Evidentiary Base)**
*   **历史案例：** 1970年代邦克·亨特（Bunker Hunt）白银投机案、1987年股灾、2000年互联网泡沫、2020年比特币行情。
*   **个人轶事：** 1957年迷路时黑人老者的善举（第一段记忆）、尤金·朗（Eugene Lang）的“我有一个梦想”演讲。
*   **专家证词：** 与AI模型公司的闭门会议、对巴菲特复利理念的重新审视、大卫·伍德（David Wood）关于全球化的著作。
*   **类比与直觉：** 将交易比作拳击（试探、出拳、寻找破口）；将AI比作核能（需要原子能委员会式的监管）。

**3. 逻辑授权 (Logical Warrant)**
作者通过**归纳推理**（从几十年交易历史中总结风险规律）和**类比推理**（将物理世界的风险监管类比到AI领域）构建论点。其道德逻辑基于**因果连锁反应**：一个善意的动作 -> 4000次祈祷 -> 创办罗宾汉基金会 -> 改变成千上万贫困儿童的命运。

**4. 划定边界 (Stated Scope)**
*   **适用领域：** 宏观交易（Macro Trading）、慈善事业、AI安全监管。
*   **明确声明：** 他承认自己无法像巴菲特那样承受50%的回撤，其“右卫”式的交易风格不适用于所有人。

**5. 隐含对手 (Implicit Opponent)**
*   **短视的投机者：** 那些不看重流动性和风险管理的人。
*   **激进的AI开发者：** 遵循“构建、破坏、迭代”模式而不顾灾难性后果的技术精英。
*   **社会戾气：** 2000年后兴起的妖魔化对手、缺乏文明礼貌的政治和社会氛围。

**6. 预设回报 (Intended Takeaway)**
读者应在事业上成为严谨的风险管理者（尤其是面对AI冲击），在生活中成为主动寻找行善机会的“复利执行者”。

---

### **第二部分：冷峻而公平的审查 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review)**

**1. 强化论点 (Steelman)**
PTJ 成功地将“交易员的残酷理性”与“慈善家的激进感性”结合。他指出，真正的伟大不仅在于捕捉比特币的涨幅，更在于意识到自己认知的局限性（如他对巴菲特从嘲讽到崇拜的转变），并利用这种认知为社会建立防风险的护栏。

**2. 最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)**
> “我相信每天一个简单的善举……能让3.5亿美国人改变国家。”

**批判：** 这种“个人道德救赎论”在面对系统性贫困和AI导致的结构性失业时显得极其无力。他提到的罗宾汉基金会虽然卓越，但其逻辑依然是“亿万富翁的施舍”，而非对造成贫困的金融体系本身进行反思。如果AI真的会消灭数亿工作岗位，PTJ 提倡的“善举”在巨大的社会动荡面前无异于杯水车薪。

**3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)**
*   **幸存者偏差：** 他将巴菲特的成功部分归结为“生在好地方、好时代”，却选择性忽略了自己作为宏观交易员同样受益于美国金融霸权和过去40年的波动率。
*   **AI 恐惧症的模糊性：** 他引用“5000万到1亿人死亡”的极端预测，缺乏具体的技术路径说明，更多是基于直觉的恐惧动员，而非严谨的技术评估。

**4. 隐藏前提 (Hidden Premises)**
*   **前提 A：** 市场波动是永恒且可预测的。
*   **前提 B：** 只要有足够的财富，个人就能通过慈善解决政府无法解决的社会问题。
*   **追问：** 如果交易员的利润本质上来源于市场的低效或对他人的收割，这种“掠夺”后的“施舍”是否真的能达成他所谓的“高尚追求”？

**5. 盲区 (The Blind Side)**
他谈到了AI对工作岗位的破坏，却未提及他所代表的对冲基金行业正是AI自动化交易的首批受益者和推动者。他在呼吁监管的同时，其公司可能正在利用这些工具获取超额收益。这种“边套利边呼吁”的姿态存在内在的冲突。

**6. 致命一击 (One Hit Kill)**
如果 PTJ 坚信 AI 的“尾部风险”大到可能导致亿万人死亡，且目前处于零监管状态，那么作为一个顶尖的风险管理者，他为何不停止所有的交易活动去全职推动立法，而是继续在屏幕前寻找“日元兑美元”的获利机会？这说明他潜意识里认为市场的获利机会仍然优先于这种人类毁灭的风险。

**7. 如何定论 (What Would Settle It)**
需要观察未来5-10年：1. 罗宾汉基金会支持的模式是否能在没有巨额捐赠的情况下自我循环（证明其科学性）；2. AI是否真的触发了大规模伤亡或仅是生产力的又一次阶跃。

---

### **第三部分：概念地图 (Mermaid Diagram)**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    subgraph SG_Core["💎 核心哲学: 双重复利论"]
        A["<b>保罗·都铎·琼斯的人生逻辑</b><br/>金融风险管理 + 道德善举复利"]
        style A fill:#FFD700,stroke:#DAA520,stroke-width:3px,color:#333,font-weight:bold
    end

    subgraph SG_Trading["📈 交易之道: 风险与阿尔法"]
        direction TB
        T1["<b>交易员 vs 投资者</b>"]
        T2["<b>核心原则</b><br/>流动性第一 / 严控回撤"]
        T3["<b>宏观洞察</b><br/>寻找催化剂 (如日元贬值/AI冲击)"]
        T4["<b>巴菲特式反思</b><br/>承认复利与长期主义的伟大"]
        
        T1 --> T2
        T2 --> T3
        T3 --> T4
    end

    subgraph SG_Social["🌍 社会责任: 慈善与AI"]
        direction TB
        S1["<b>罗宾汉基金会</b><br/>用商业指标衡量扶贫效果"]
        S2["<b>AI 监管诉求</b><br/>水印技术 / 防范尾部灾难"]
        S3["<b>善举复利</b><br/>一次帮助 -> 4000次祈祷 -> 系统性慈善"]
        
        S3 -- "资金来源" --> S1
        S1 -- "面临挑战" --> S2
    end

    subgraph SG_Life["🧘 个人修行: 意义的寻找"]
        direction TB
        L1["<b>沟通力</b><br/>新闻写作逻辑 (PCA分析)"]
        L2["<b>生命意义</b><br/>家庭 / 信仰 / 寻找'巅峰春秋'"]
        L3["<b>职业忠告</b><br/>保持激情 / 永不退休"]
        
        L1 --> L3
        L3 --> L2
    end

    subgraph SG_Review["⚔️ 批判性审视 (Hostile Review)"]
        direction TB
        R1["<b>精英主义陷阱</b><br/>依赖个人施舍而非系统变革"]
        R2["<b>知行不一</b><br/>在呼吁AI风险的同时利用AI获利"]
        R3["<b>道德简化</b><br/>简单善举无法对冲结构性失业"]
        
        R1 -.-> S1
        R2 -.-> S2
        R3 -.-> S3
    end

    A --> T1
    A --> S3
    A --> L1

    %% --- Node Styles ---
    classDef mainNode fill:#FFFACD,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:3px,color:#333
    classDef tradeNode fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#1565C0,stroke-width:2px,color:#0D47A1
    classDef socialNode fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20
    classDef lifeNode fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#7B1FA2,stroke-width:2px,color:#4A148C
    classDef reviewNode fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#C62828,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#B71C1C

    class A mainNode
    class T1,T2,T3,T4 tradeNode
    class S1,S2,S3 socialNode
    class L1,L2,L3 lifeNode
    class R1,R2,R3 reviewNode

    %% --- Subgraph Styles ---
    style SG_Core fill:#FFFDE7,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Trading fill:#E1F5FE,stroke:#03A9F4,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Social fill:#F1F8E9,stroke:#8BC34A,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Life fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#AB47BC,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Review fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#EF5350,stroke-width:2px
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
My number one bullet point is you're going to make your money by riding a trend for the very, very longest time. Or you can be like Warren Buffett. You can be one of those valued investors who won't spin in nickel and I used to just sit there and rail on Warren Buffett year after year after year. And he just happened to be in the right place, the right time caught. This bull market is just thinking, oh my god, why can't I be Warren Buffett? just believe in America and just went for you down 50% who cares because America's gonna bring you through. Warren, if you happen to hear this deeply apologetic, you are the OG of compound interest. There was something that we talked about when we last met that made me laugh and I thought it'd be a fun place to begin our conversation today and it was about the difference between being an investor and and being a trader. And you mentioned something basically saying you wished. You could be an investor. Life would be so easy. I'd love you to describe the difference between the two and the life of a trader. I promise I'll do that. And we'll talk about markets and AI and everything. And at the end, I'll say, were you not entertained? And I bet you'll say yes. But of all the things that you do on your podcast, the one that I think's the most important. If you don't mind, I'd love to start with that one, which is that question you ask every one at the end. I'm in, I love it. And the reason why is because it's so funny, I gave this commencement address one time to what is now Rhodes College and Memphis. I remember when I was writing it, I was sneering thinking, damn, who gave my commencement address? I couldn't remember. It was funny, no one remembers. Can you remember who gave your commencement? You're so young you might. It was the president of Ireland at the time. I would say Notre Dame, so. And you're Irish, right? OK. But it was so funny, because no one remembers who gave their commencement address. And I was thinking, God, I'm getting ready to do this for 15 or 20 minutes, and no one's going to remember a damn thing. How do I make it special? And so on this podcast, I'm assuming people listen to millions of podcasts. And they probably can't really remember but fractions of them. So if there's anything they remember from this, I hope it's this part. All right, so everyone that listens knows that the question is, what is the kindest thing that anyone's ever done for you? It's such a great question because the kindest thing was also my very, very, very first childhood memory. I was probably two and a half or three. It's probably 1957, something like that. And I was with my mother at this place called the Curb Market. And I got separated from my mother. And boy, you can imagine being two and a half years old and separated from your mother. You just, it's your terror stricken. And this elderly black gentleman came up and I was sitting there, bawling my eyes out because I thought my mother had left me and said, what's the matter, little boy? And I said, I lost my mama. And he said, well, here, don't you worry. We're going to find her and he grabbed my hand. And we started walking up and down the aisles. It was an outdoor vegetable market. And I can, gosh, I can almost still smell fruits and vegetables. We'd come around the corner finally. And I see my mother. And I was so happy and my mother saw me. And at first, she just started laughing. And I remember her, she was laughing so hard. So she comes and she gets me and she says to that man, she tries to give him $5, which was in 1957, a huge amount of money. And he said, no, ma'am, I know you'd do that for my child too. And it was such a simple act of kindness, but it was so profound to me at the time. So that night, I had a prayer list with my mother that she used to go through with me every night. So it'd be God bless my momma, daddy, Peter Paul, Alberta Grande, Peyton Judy Lynn and Sid, and then we added my mother, I said, what was that man's name? She goes, I never got his name. For the next 10 to 12 years, right in that prayer list would be that man. So probably four or five thousand reps every night for that man. Now, fast-forward to 1986, I'm living in New York City and I'm glad I'm my couch 32 years old. And I'm watching 60 minutes, and Harry Reesner's interviewing this guy, Eugene Lang. And Eugene Lang was a businessman who had gone back to give the commencement address to his elementary school up in Harlem, which over the course of the intervening 60 years had completely transformed from a gentrified area into an African-American Hispanic community with almost a population entirely consisting of people of color. And Jean asked the principal, how many of these kids, these 12 year olds are going to go to college and I said, hmm, statistically maybe, I don't know, eight or nine percent, something like that. He could not believe that because obviously he graduated from that school, going on to college and then done very well. So right there in the spot he decided, I'm going to promise everyone of those kids, if they graduate from high school, I'll put them through college. And that resonated with me so much. adopted that class and he created something called I have a dream program. I said I can do that. I can do that. In the next day I called him up and he said you know it's funny three or four other people have called me and we're all meeting at my apartment on Tuesday night. I got there late and I was seeing myself up in Harlem or somewhere on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. I got Bed-Stuy. Now I was crime I'm crime-ridden community in New York at that time, even higher than the Bronx. And that began this journey. I put my heart and soul into it. I spent about, I'd go over there every Tuesday, I went to the commencement address of the elementary school, did the same thing that he did, told him that they graduate from high school, up to him through college. Of course, everybody was jubilant, right? It was a big surprise that parents were so happy. That began this big journey for really the next 14 years because I kept adopting successive classes. I had tremendous passion. We were doing after school programs, we were playing sports, teaching life skills. About three years then I realized these kids aren't doing that great. Now they've gone on to different junior highs are not doing that great. So I started hiring some tutors, figured that out. And then probably four years in, I've had one kid who got killed, I had a bunch of girls become teenage moms. So now all of a sudden I'm dealing not just with the academic challenges, but also with the social challenges to boot, of which there are many. Along the way, I learned so much by failing. I learned so much about what it takes to actually beat poverty. And by the way, 1987, year after that, was when Robin Hood started. And then that informed me through, certainly it was extraordinarily destructive, and as we built Robin Hood out, and began applying metrics and making sure we had goals and standards and a variety of things. And also led me ultimately to start one of the first charter schools in the late 90s. In Bed-Stuy, right next to that spot actually, I started Charter School called the Bed-Stuy Charter School of Excellence. The first one started out as an all-boy school. We named it Excellence because I wanted these boys to know that we were going to demand excellence of them, and we completely, totally crushed it. We hired the absolutely dream team of educators to do it, and within about four or five years we were number one out of 543 elementary schools in New York City. The point being that you can have all the passion in the world but you have to have a plan. There has to be a great pedagogy in what it is that you're trying to do when educating a kid. Why is all this relevant? We'll just think about this. So here was this one simple act of kindness, this elderly man helping this young child, in that case, a black man helping this young white boy. And so when I saw Harry Reesner, and I saw that elderly man helping those young kids, there was the photo negative of what had happened to me, and I thought, wow, it just was instinctive. The point here is that one simple act of kindness can have waves of betterment. It can be so transformative and so multiplicative, there's no doubt in my mind that 4,000 reps are thanking that elderly man to help me as a child, inspired me when I saw Harry Reesner interviewing Jean Lang to emulate that in a sense. I keep thinking how instructed it would be if intentionally we just all start every day with a goal of one simple act of kindness. It doesn't have to be anything big. It can be as something as small as what happened to me when I was three and look at the possibilities that come from it. Just imagine, at 350 main Americans, intentionally set out every day for one simple act of kindness. What I will say, particularly the young people who might be listening to this, I'll tell you, before 2000, I would say 2000 was kind of a turning point. All this demonization and criticism and the attack mode that we seem to be in is that it didn't exist. It's not the way, by the way, that this generation that's perpetrating it and promoting it was raised. It's not the way we were raised. It's not the way of the 70s, 80s, 90s. You didn't have these vitriolic attacks. There's a much higher level of civility in respect. And I think down the road we'll get back to it. But so I would just say to young people, you don't have to accept today is what this country historically has been about because it wasn't that way when I grew up, certainly grew up, it certainly wasn't that way. And it's not going to be that way in the future. Most software companies try to maximize your time on their app to juice engagement. Ramp does the exact opposite. Ramp understands that no one wants to spend hours filing expense reports, reviewing expense reports, and checking for policy violations. So they built their tools to give that time back, using AI to automate 85% of expense reviews with 99% accuracy. And since Ramp saves companies 5%, it's no wonder that Shopify runs on Ramp, Stripe runs on Ramp, and my business those two. To see what happens when you eliminate the busy work, check out ramp.com slash invest. Open AI, cursor, andthropic perplexity and versel all have something in common. They all use Work OS. And here's why. To achieve enterprise adoption at scale, you have to deliver on core capabilities, like SSO, SKIM, RBAC, and audit logs. That's where Work OS comes in. Instead of spending months building these mission critical capabilities yourself, you can just use Work OS APIs to gain all of them on day zero. That's why so many of the top AI teams you hear about already run on Work OS. Work OS is the fastest way to become enterprise ready and stay focused on what matters most, your product. Visit workos.com to get started. Felix Byrogo is a personal finance agent that turns a single prompt into finished client-ready work using your firm's own templates, context, and standards. Send Felix an email like, take these comments and turn them for me or update my tracker with the context of these emails or run the ability to pay math on this buyer and Felix sends back finished PowerPoint decks, Excel models, and source research. Felix works the way your team already does. delivering work quickly and accurately around the clock. Learn more at rogo.ai slash Felix. Absolutely incredible story. Maybe my favorite version of this answer that I've ever had. First time I've ever done it at the beginning of the episode, which makes it fun too. What was your message in the commencement speech that you ultimately gave? What did you decide was the message that we've been with? So I got up there and I looked on the day-ass and I said, how many, you know, there's like 20 people over 50 or 60. How many of you remember your college commencement dress? None of them. Not one of them could remember. I love to hunt and fish. So I go through and I talk about just kind of the normal challenges that are going to face in life. And I also talked about how going through this process, I wanted to make sure I was going to say something that was memorable. So right there at the end, I said, so whatever you do, And I pulled out my bow, and I knocked in there. I said, so whatever you do, aim high and shoot straight. And when I went like this, the whole crowd goes, woohoo, aim high and shoot straight. And I had an apple on a table over here and smashed it. Knocked it, yeah. So I don't know where they still remember not, but I know when everybody was ducking, I thought, oh, they're going to remember that. I've told the President of the University that, listen, you don't have to tack on me or anything like that, okay? This is part of it, but I'm just trying to, you know, try to let these people have a night that they'll remember for some time. It's an excuse for me to ask my other question about this difference between investing and trading. So I'd love you to explain the life of a trader in contrast to that of an investor. If I just think about when I started, I started in 1976, inflation was raging. I started on the floor of the commodity pits. Stuff was literally going up and doubling and cutting in half every year. The volatility wasn't saying. To give you an example of how crazy things got, bunker hunt was squeezing silver at the time. And he bought about 200 million ounces at an average price of about three and a half bucks. And between 1976 and 1980, we had crazy monetary policy. Inflation started ripping, and silver went literally through the roof. Ultimately, I started out in the form of the kind of change about a membership on ComEx, which was the metals exchange of that time I got in the pit. And it was executing some orders for them sometimes along the way. And the bottom line was it was just the most amazing bull run. I want to say by like 79 silver was around 30 bucks an ounce and all of a sudden He was worth about five or six billion which made him worth three times The next closest person in the world bunker says well I think I think this silver here's the most valuable asset and resource on earth Someone asked him what are you gonna do with all that silver and he goes I'm gonna bury it In fact, what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna buy 20 million more ounces and then we'll bury that too. So he buys 20 million ounces at 35 bucks and when that happened, it just woohoo! It just roofed, right? It goes to 50 bucks so it's 50 bucks now. He's worth about 11 billion and he's got a multiple of five or six on the next closest guy. I just couldn't even believe what I'd seen and how much money that this guy had made anyway. So that was when KOMECs decided the commercials had been just eradicated because they're sitting there holding physicals and having to put up this march in every day. And their bankers going, yeah, I can't do it. So anyway, I made a liquidation only, silver collapsed and went from 50 bucks to under 10 bucks in the space about eight weeks. And that had a shearing impact on me, to see him go from the richest guy to virtually bankrupt in this short space of six or seven weeks. Right then in there, I would never own anything, trust anything for the rest of my life. You know, again, my grandfather, when I was really young, he said, son, you're only worth what you can write a check for tomorrow. That also had a really deep impression on me. So liquidity's always been something that's been, it was in my DNA as a child because that was my grandpa's favorite saying all the time. I mean also just my early trading days because my early trading days had $10,000 account. I'd run that thing to 100, run it back down to zero and also living in my early 20s. I had this friend who's such a character. He could take 2500 bucks or five grand and run it to two million. Of course, the market moves and we're crazy. Like, no one had ever seen. We were brokers at that time of the F Hut and we called in the mortician because he'd get an account with 10,000. Churned about $100,000 commissions, take it to the main bucks and then have it in deficit. So you learned that liquidity was really important because the volatility was so huge and we're all living on the edge. But so that had a real impact on me. The idea of owning something for the long run was laughable because look how much money you could make by trading in the short run because the volatility profile was off the chart. One of my mentors who got me into trading was teaching a class on investment in Virginia and asked me to come be a guest lecture and I started in 82 and I've been doing it every semester since. I remember one of my favorite stories to tell in that class is I would go through how all the greatest fortunes in the world were made. I'd always ask them, who's the richest guy in the world? Back then it was Bill Gates and Warren Buffett. How did they get there? And my point to them would be they got there by writing a trend for the long run run. That would be my big lesson to them. I'd always have two or three bullet points. My number one bullet point is you're gonna make your money by riding a trend for the very, very longest time. I said there are many different ways to achieve it. You can own a company like Bill Gates or Steve Jobs or whatever, or you can be like Warren Buffett. You can be one of those value investors who won't spend a nickel and I used to just sit there and rail on Warren Buffett year after year after year. And I would self congratulate myself for trash and go see, he just happened to be in the right place, the right time caught. This bull market, if that guy had been in Japan, forget it, never would have happened. If it started in 1989, and the Nikki, forget it, never would have happened. Different story, right place, right time, bull market genius. I guess this will be my 50th year. And the difference between my trading and investing is I just take our fund, which BBI fund, for 40 years it has a minus 0.12 correlation with the S&P 500. So you can see the difference between investing and training. So 100% of our terms are alpha, 100% and I'm just thinking, oh my God, why cannot I be Warren Buffett? Just believe in America. And just when you down 50% who cares? Because America's going to bring you through. And not that he doesn't, he works as hard as an even being. but it's that belief system that's so fantastic as opposed to, I feel like I'm like a right guard. And I've been, but a right guard in the NFL for 50 years where I'm just every day just fighting in the frickin' trenches every day. And every time someone says to me, gee, I want to go to the training, I said, going along short, going on the equity side, go do it. And I just, I've always envied that belief system. It's such a great belief, and it's worked so well for so long. But I would have huge difficulty to have been in warrant shoes in 2008 and I have a 50% drawdown. It would have had a really material impact on me. I don't think I have his calm and patience in fortitude to be able to do what he does. And so anyway, I was listening to the acquired podcast on Berkshire Halfway and for the first time I learned that at nine years old, nine years old, he understood the power of compound interest. And actually when I listened to that podcast, I just went, oh my god, this guy is a genius and I had been the greatest fool. I've always wanted to write a book called, What I Realize Now, which would go through the success of mistakes of beliefs that I've had in my lifetime. What I Realize Now is what an idiot I was. That guy is a flipping genius because he understood the power of compound interest, which I somehow managed brilliantly to avoid my entire career. He understood it in nine. He went out, 17 went to Columbia and sought out Benjamin Grant. what a genius. Now the great thing from that podcast is that he was also so smart that he partnered with Charlie Munger and Charlie was clearly a tremendous genius as own right because whereas Warren would buy $50,000, Charlie understood the power of compounding for companies that were growing all the time and I think the two of them together. Man, what a combination. But anyway, if Warren, if you happen to hear this deeply apologetic, you are the OG of compound interest. And I wish I was one tenth as smart as you are. Didn't you, didn't you talk to him about what he thought about A.I. sitting there after? I just talked about, what was that conversation like? You cannot be a trader investor whenever term we use and not be a really good risk manager. Anyone that's really succeeded in investing or trading is first and foremost a great risk manager. I went to this conference about 18 months ago, and I just was so alarmed by what I heard, and then I mentioned on CNBC, and he watches CNBC every day and sent me a notes that I agreed to 100 percent, but the Genies have the bottle. I don't know if we can get it back I think he's completely on board with the belief that we have some real threats from AI. The problem with AI is that the news, I don't like, in the last 12 hours, the news that keeps coming out is just more disturbing. The biggest problem with AI is that if you think about the way AI is being deployed, practice deployed right now is the bill break iterate model. Build it, break it, fix it and iterate. If you think about, that's been the invention model since the beginning of man, bill break iterate. But we've never been in a situation where the tail event could be hundreds of millions of not billions of lives. What's so scary when I was at this conference, which is only about 30, 40 people, with one model from the four biggest model companies. And when I was able to ask them pointedly, how do you think that AI's safety gets resolved? The pretty much the consensus answer is, I think we'll finally do something about it when 50 or 100 million people died in accident. I mean, it's crazy. My big problems with AI are that one, there's no plebiscite on this, there's no vote, there's no way for the public to say yay or nay on the pace at which we're going. And that's the way that most innovation occurs. Again, this one has a tail event on it that's so large I go back to when the nuclear bomb was dropped. 18 months later, our Congress and our administration was smart enough and forward thinking to create the Atomic Energy Commission to begin to try to regulate something that had huge tails. Here we are, we're three years in and regulate what are you talking about? If there ever was a leadership position that needs to be taken by any president, it's on AI regulation right now, not just the United States, but convening with China, with all the other our purveyors are to make sure that we don't do something that has catastrophic consequences. And that's just on the safety side, not even what's going to happen to social disruption. Matt Schumer came out with a very lengthy essay on how the two new models that released six days ago are going to be so unbelievably disruptive to the workforce. So you just, the news in my mind keeps getting more alarming. If this was, I can tell you, if this was anything to do inside Tudor, this thing would have been so contained, so long ago. I mean, that's what a good risk manager does, and yet there's zero risk management here. It's your point about great investors and traders are great risk managers. In the face of AI, how do you think about this exogenous variable lurking? one thing that I think should be part of this next election. The simplest, most important thing that we can do is we can demand that all AI is watermarked. That's the single most transformative thing that we could possibly do for the country, for the world. Make it a felony if someone knowingly violates that three times and put them in jail. I want to know what's authentically human and what's not. And when that happens, talking about restoring trust in the country, which I think is one of the biggest problems, I would say two times since this year began, I've had very serious people call them and say, did you see XYZ? And of course it turned out to be a deep fake. I think just so we can get back to some truth and honor in that normal discourse, I think we've got to do that and the reason why it's so important is if I go back to that conference 18 months ago, I would say a significant portion of the scientists there, envision a future where humanity is going to have a chip in our brain that's going to allow us to access so much knowledge, power, et cetera. So I'm just kind of looking down the road and thinking, okay, we really need to know what We're reading what we're looking at because, again, that group without having any feedback from the rest of America thinks that a blended human with the machine is perfectly sceptible is the future, should have an alien rights. For me, I don't think that's the case. I'd vote no. I think most humans would vote no. So coming back to some of these themes of investor versus trader risk management, etc. I know you learned a lot from this guy, Eli Telis, and I love these lessons that were formative for you for what became, you know, the trading legend that you now are. What did he teach you? And was there any specific episode from your time with him that taught you the biggest or most important lesson? God, he was so strong. He was really good at executing at the maximum apogee fear as well as greed. He was so good at smelling that because he traded hardly anything but cotton. He would just sit there and he would just focus and he could just, he was just so good at waiting for exactly when there was just too much elation or when there was too much fear. So that was really helpful. And then I would say the number one thing I learned from him was we were so long cotton one weekend, and there was a great drought, spectacular drought, and of course it rained all through the belt over the weekend. Walking, market was limit down, he had gotten absolutely smashed. I thought, oh my God, it's over. That day for lunch, his wife brought in four of her friends. He had the most beautiful office I've ever seen in my life, and he came out and just, oh Oh my God, he had a smile on his face. Oh, ladies, and flirting with the wise. I mean, obviously they're going, are you kidding me? This guy's just broke. And he's acting like he's rock Hudson or something. Wow. Boy, I tell you what, I'll never forget that one to this day when the going gets tough, the tough get going. And you wear it here and you had that confidence you're going to come back hugely important. It feels like the right time to ask you just what trading means to you. You've said before that the whole world is just this interconnected series of capital flows, and part of the job is being on top of that and taking positions based on what's going on in the world. But mostly I interview investors who buy steaks and companies. I very rarely interview someone that is moving and putting on major positions in any sort of asset class or trading instrument, and so I would like to just describe what to you trading like what is the literal act that you are doing every day with such excellence for decades? There's a couple of metaphors that come to mind. Well let's start with boxing because you have an opponent in this case is the market. You know you're going into the ring with this opponent who's after you the whole time and I'm thinking more of a classic one as opposed to a Mike Tyson one But you're kind of pairing, jabbing, feeling each other out, looking for an opening, and then every now and then you'll have a great opening and you take a big shot. And you may land one. If I think about big shots, just Bitcoin 2020, a knockout, two-year rates, 2022, knockout, you have these incredible opportunities at times if you just sit and wait. The whole time in the interim, some of it you're just gathering information, looking for those openings. You're always trying to make progress, you're always trying to win the round, but there'll be those few opportunities where you can do something really material. I love the boxing analogy, in the examples you gave Bitcoin to your rates, precious metals, so many things you've been through. What is going on in one of those? Maybe pick one, and I'm literally curious what you are doing in the moments, what you're looking at what you're studying, what supply demand and balances you see, what is the literal nature of one of these windows that opens every so often? If you think about all the really big moves, it's probably because the market has gotten too carried away, or there's been some imbalance that's gone on for too long, or a central back does something that they shouldn't be doing, or a government does something they shouldn't be doing. So that's, I think, the genesis of most of the big moves, typically it's going to be inspired by central back or central government. A good one right now in the making that's going to be interesting, I think, is dollar yen. The yen's grossly undervalued has been for some time. What's the catalytic moment? That's really the point you've got to ask. the catalytic moment and that catalytic moment was this new president that was just a new prime minister that was just elected. She has all the characteristics of a Ronald Reagan or a Margaret Thatcher or Donald Trump when he got elected the second time and if you look at what those local currencies did, they all appreciate pretty quickly 10% off the bat. I want to say Japan has $4.5 trillion, a $4.5 trillion net international investment position to the good with the rest of the world, probably 60% of that's in the U.S., and most of that is unhedged, so they just have this massive dollar liability. And all of a sudden, we've now got the most dynamic leader in, certainly a half a century in Japan, who's Japan first is going to have a very entrepreneurial way that she is going to remake that economy. So you're looking for something that's under owned, undervalued, way out of whack. People have gotten complacent on it, and you're looking for that catalytic moment. In the case of the two-year rates in 22, we had way too much fiscal stimulus, and then Powell, he overstayed being easy, way too long because he wanted Biden to reappoint him. So as soon as Biden reappointing, it was go time to get short two-year notes, because you knew the Fed was going to normalize him. And then in 2020, when you saw, again, all interventions, both on central back and the You just knew that the inflation trades were going to take off and what was of all of them, what was the best one. At that point in time, it was Bitcoin. Bitcoin is unequivocally the best inflation hedge that there is. More than gold because Bitcoin is finite. There's only so much Bitcoin that can be mined. The problem with it is inflation hedge is if you got into kinetic exchange, it's clearly going to be cyber warfare and anything that you have to deal with electronically is going down including Bitcoin, so strike one. And then secondly, quantum computing, who knows if and when with AI advancing as fast as it is that we may actually have quantum computing, now quantum computing someone can come in and can hack any back and hack anything they want to. In terms of it being a great inflation hedge, gold increasing supply every year by a couple of percent. Bitcoin, there's a finite amount that can be mined as decentralized, and so in that sense, it has the greatest scarcity value of anything. If you think about the big ones that you've lived through, 87, you know, the global financial crisis, COVID, et cetera, various bubbles, asset bubbles through history, maybe say a little about those general experiences that you're very famous for what happened in 1987, of course. And I'm curious about those ones because I'm curious what you think about today's environment. Are we in a bubble? It's a very popular question. Mostly that's answered by investors, less so by traders. And so I would love your perspective on the big ones that you've experienced historically and how those lessons applied to today. If I think of some really, really big big accidents. Most of them have the same underlying reason, same underlying foundation, which is too much leverage somewhere. Most leverage, most of the time, if I think of the big ones, were deruded and inspired, either futures or options. 1987, that crash was 100% portfolio insurance, 100%. Had they had limits, which they didn't, it had been a maybe 15% max. But that was 100% derivatives. If I think about 1998, long-term capital, big derivatives, they had a huge balance sheet with a lot of derivatives they were off sides on. 2000 was a little different. 2000 was the easiest bear market I've ever seen my whole life. It's got so many similarities to right now in the sense that the bear market of 2001 and 2002 were a consequence of all the IPOs and 99 2000 and then as they unlocked you just had this never ending cascaded selling cascaded selling that's a great way of putting it and we're getting ready I want to say that the the the cotton-plated IPOs the next year are going to be five six percent of market cap so why are we where we are right now because we've been retiring two or three percent of market cap, probably less than two percent of market cap every year with that fail for the past ten years. Through buybacks and things like this. Through buybacks. And so now all of a sudden you're going to completely reverse that math. And so I don't think it necessarily happens instantaneously with the APOs, but then there'll be the on-locks so you can see a situation where okay, maybe go through some kind of rolling top, and then 18 months from now, six months, we'll have to look at the buy back, the unlock schedule, but you're going to want to watch those because that'll just be adding equity supply, and you're already going to be diminishing the buy backs because of all the commitment to cap action, the hyperscalers, they're already going to be eating into their cash flow. So I think that's why tech has dogged it, why it will continue to dog it because all the funding, much of the funding for these IPOs is going to come out of existing text stocks. When you say are we in a bubble, I don't know if we're necessary in a bubble, we're clearly so leveraged in equities in this country. We're so dependent upon firm equity prices at this point in time. And when I say leveraged, we're 252% of stock market capital GDP. So 1929, I think at the top, we were 65% and then in 87, we got to about 85% or 90% and in 2000, we got to 170% and now we're 252, so you can just imagine, if you think about the periodicity of significant bear markets. Since 1970 we get kind of a mean reversion about on average every 10 years. When I say mean reversion let's say mean-revert to the past 25 or 30 year P. So if we did that here that would be and again these are elevated P's way elevated beyond the 20th century. That That would be a, say a 30, 35 percent decline, well, 35 percent on 250 percent of GDP is 89 percent of GDP, the reverse wealth effect, oh my gosh, 10 percent of our tax revenues are capital gains, they go to zero, so you can see the budget deficit blowing up, you can see the bond market getting smug, you can see this kind of negative self-reinforcing effect, and so it's troubling, it's troubling. So are we in a bubble, we're clearly in a sovereign debt bubble and the stock market we're over equitized as a country, have the highest individual equity weightings in the history of the country. And then the real problem is that we're also, if you look at private equity in 2007, 2008, that was about 7% of institutional portfolios, now it's about 16% of the institutional portfolios. real estate's gone up, infrastructure bets have gone up. We're so much more liquid than we were in 2008. So you have to be cognizant of that fact when you think about how you have your money deployed. I had a friend ask me, he was a wealth manager, he hates hedge fund because of the fees. He just says, we just need to put mine the S&P 500. He said, if you were investing for 20 years, why would you tell somebody? As he knows that I'm supposed to say, you just buy the S&P closure eyes. Well the problem is that if you buy the S&P at this current valuation, the 10-year Ford returns negative when you buy the S&P of 22, that's what history shows. So yes, the S&P is a spectacular long-term, if you have a hundred-year view, but that's That's because that's an average of 100 years, including times when the S&P 500 PE was six and seven and eight or one third of what it is right now. So valuation matters a lot and the stock market's really high and it's going to be really hard to make money from here I think with any kind of long-term view. If I came and shattered you on a given day today, how does it go? What are you doing? What does a day look like today? I know you have a system that you can be heard by all times and by your execution traders. I know it's intense, but just like walk us through a day in the life. I get up at, say, 6.15. I work till 7 o'clock, I go workout till 7.45, I try to do 45 minutes of hard cardio every day. I get in front of the screen for the opening. I typically won't have any meetings till 10 o'clock, and then I'll probably do meetings about 12 o'clock typically have lunch with someone, have a meeting after lunch, try to make sure that I've got an hour before the close and an hour after the close to be able to map out when I want to do the next day because again I want to have a plan as well as think what's going to happen that night in Tokyo, Hong Kong, I'd go home around five, walk with my wife for an hour, go up work for an hour, come back down and eat. I've normally watched the news in the most mindless entertainment that I possibly can. I used to read a book in a half a week and then once the internet came, forget it, I'm I'm so tired of reading at nighttime. I've read one book in the last year, which is gonna be, by the way, I recommend everyone read it. It's David Wood. He's a kind of a newsletter writer, but he's written what's gonna be a spectacular bestseller on globalization markets. It's fantastic. And I'll bet you it gets made in Netflix series. And I bet you it's gonna be a banger. Anyway, I'll try to watch something on Netflix. then I'll work from saying 9.30 to 10.15 and then I go to bed and I'll wake up at... 6.15 and do it again. I don't know, I'll wake up at probably 2.30 or 3.00 and I'll work for half an hour to wash, let it open for 45 minutes, half an hour. And I'll do a lot of analytical work then. It's a quiet time, it's good. Then I'll go back to sleep and wake up to 6.15. Wow, and you've been doing that for 50 years? I've been doing that for, I'm probably doing that, Yeah, I've been doing that for certainly since the 80s. I feel like I worked so much harder than I did 40 years ago, 30 years ago. Because there's more information? Oh my God, I get 800 or 1000 emails a day. If I think about when I was a pit trader, I think about even the 80s, when there was so much less information, I could spend more of my time intently focusing on what the highs and lows were going to be in the day, which is really important for execution, doing what my boss Eli did, just waiting, paying attention, focusing, are we a point of maximum pain? Is there so much fear right now, which is a great time to buy? Does it look like it's going to go up forever a great time to sell? You have to be intentional to be able to pick those points in the day. And when you're training 25 different instruments, instrument by instrument a lot of times they'll be correlated. Sometimes or not, you have to be very intentional about that. So, if while you're doing that, there's 48 emails coming at the same time, all of which could be actual information. I think today, for me at least, it's just a lot, a lot harder I think, because the information overload distracts me from exquisite execution. What does that mean exquisite execution? Am I buying when there's blood on the ground and am I selling when there's complete elation? Let's take last Friday where we had the largest down day in the history of Golden Silver. So you've got to be, you have to be paying attention. Every minute, because when you have a 33% move in silver in one day, you just have to be so focused on that day's activity, what you're going to do on the opening, what you're going to do if the price moves through a certain price that you weren't anticipating that day, it gets back to what I learned in Bedstop. You better have a plan. You better have a plan ahead of time and it better be self-executing. And you better have thought through that and I hear it from my other friends who are macro traders. They go, God, Derni, I just feel like I'm two hours late, three hours late. At last Friday was a great example, it can be so material. If I think about what's required to do that day and day out, there's got to be just like an enormous amount of passion for markets and what you do. Can you just talk about the notion of finding, nurturing, the importance of passion in a life's work? It's so funny when we talk about traders, great traders, and again, I'm talking about people who are alpha generators, not investing. We had a dinner about, I guess it was a year ago Christmas and I had four or five of my best risk takers at dinner and we have a debate is a great trader's born or made. I'd say it was unanimous agreement at the table that 70% of it is nature. And when I say born with it, by the time I was 21, I loved games. I loved chess, backgammon, parcheese, monopoly, Uh, battle, um, Genrami, you name it, I played it. Then I started gambling college. I had a degree in probability theory and had never taken a math course on it. But I knew it. I was such a game fanatic and I loved it so much. If I had to pick out the, the number one traits, type a personality, incredibly curious inquisitive, and loves, loves competition, loves games. Because again, the whole, our whole business is just another form of probability theory. And I still, I still love the day. I played bridge with my friends all the time. I can't get enough of that. I love any kind of game of chance. And I love trading. And the other reason that I love trading, I'll never forget my wife's Australian and we first got married back in 1989 she said well I know you got a living in New York but I came from the beach so when our last child graduation college were taking me to the beach so sure enough my son turns 18 my fourth child 2014 we're going so we ended up down here in Palm Beach she gets me a GP the GP a general practitioner so So she makes me go in, I see the guy. And this guy's 83 years old. And I say to him, you're living here in the land of the walking dead. Everyone here is basically fossilized. What is the secret to longevity? And he goes, it's real simple. You retire, you die. And that had a really profound impact on me. Because I realize as I get older, maybe when you get all you will to, for you better. If you don't use it, you're gonna lose it. And that's why I try to work out two hours a day. And it's why another reason that I enjoy trading is I wanna keep my mind sharp because there's too many things that I wanna do when my fall lived to be a hundred when I'm in my nineties that I wanna do. So I think trading is great therapy for me too. The other reason that I really enjoy trading is, I'd like to make an absolute pot of money so I can give it away. I got so many causes that I want to give it to that I actually feel like this is the pursuit of nobility. So I feel it's a privilege to wake up and I just hope I freaking kill it so I can give it away." As your business scales up, everything gets more complex, especially your compliance and security needs. With so many tools offering band-aids and patches, it's unfortunately far too easy for something to slip through the cracks. Fortunately, Vanta is a powerful tool designed to simplify and automate your security work and deliver a single source of truth for compliance and risk. There's a reason that RAMP, cursor, and snowflake all use Vanta. It frees them to focus on building amazing differentiated products, knowing that compliance and security are under control. Learn more at vanta.com slash invest. I know firsthand how complex the tech stack is for asset management firms, and seemingly Every new tool and data source makes the problem even worse, adding more complexity, more head count, and more risk. Ridgeline offers a better way forward. One unified platform that automates away that, that automates away that complexity across portfolio accounting, reconciliation, reporting, trading, compliance, and more. All at scale. Ridgeline is revolutionizing investment management, helping ambitious firms scale faster, operate smarter, and stay ahead of the curve. See what Ridgeline can unlock for your firm, schedule a demo at ridgeline.ai Can you tell us the story of starting Robin Hood and what you talked to us earlier about the Charter School work and everything in bedside? Robin Hood started the year after it's a really important part of your life and legacy. Robin Hood happened the day after the crash and I maybe the worst macro call of my life was thinking we were gonna go into depression. I thought for sure. I've been looking at the parallels in 1929 for a year. All of a sudden, it happens. I think, oh my god, this is a perfect replay, a perfect analog. So, I called up my friends and we began it. It was just been the most marvelous journey. I can't recommend anything more highly than getting involve with some cause that you believe in. The best part of philanthropy and charitable giving is the people you meet. Oh my gosh, I've met the greatest, most wonderful, most giving. It just brightens every aspect of your life to be associated with the best people who embody the best ideals. Anyway, we say we gotta do something, so the only alternative at that, there really wasn't, there really weren't any charities focused on fighting poverty, which I thought was gonna be rampant at the time. So I've always believed if you wanna do something, you're better off doing yourself, so we started out very small, and we just applied basic business principles to finding the most efficacious way of helping people in need. And again, along the way, I'm learning, I'm learning by doing, I'm making all these mistakes along the way and I'm learning so much. And then I realize, boy, this is a science. And then we just started hiring the very best people that we could as our staff and then recruited. It was so easy to recruit people from the financial world to help. The 90s were a special time. Everyone wanted to participate and give back and help. I don't know what it was, but my gosh, we created so many fantastic philanthropists in that era. In the 80s, it was completely different. Everyone wanted to be associated with the Philharmonic. And these are all great, But they wanted to be with the named social charities. And I'd say after the crash, everyone found their significance by helping others. Maybe it was just because that was when you really started to accumulate these big fortunes, individual fortunes for people. And they were just really, really wonderful about wanting to give back. And the whole financial community support Robin Hood, such a spectacular way. The whole hedge fund community in New York, it was really, it still is a joy. What, if you think about the whole broad world, feels the healthiest to you today about the system that is the world that makes you the most optimistic, and where does it feel the most fragile? I'm trying to fast forward to the workless world, to where AI does so much for us, that we don't have to work. And I used to have a really negative outlook on what that would be like, because if you think about it, so many of us define our significance through our work. Imagine a world where now the significance, that huge, incredibly important component of human happiness is now taken away from us because of the fact that we don't have to work. I used to really despair about that because it's someone who works all the time and finds my significant at what am I going to do. But I've become more optimistic recently because as I think through how athletes find significance in the sports they do, how I play bridge with my friends and find so much significance in competing with them. I think maybe humans are adaptable enough that we'll find a different way to find significance. Maybe it's going to be in finding that intentional, simple act of kindness every day. I'm not sure what it is, but I do think that as a race, we're so unbelievably adaptable, so smart that we might be able to find out a way to find happiness. I think that's going to be the biggest challenge potentially in four or five years is what do we do when so many of our jobs have been replaced by AI? So many young people are trying to figure out what to do, what their careers are going to be. You've talked and written a lot about the power of communication, like great communication that's like such an essential skill. Journalism is an interesting way of learning that. We talked just about that power as a message to young people trying to figure it out why they should maybe focus on that. I have long maintained that better than a business school degree. Journalism 101 should be a mandatory subject in every college, which is newspaper running in particular, and it was so important to my development. So my father had a really small trade finance legal paper in Memphis, 25-hundred-person subscription. I would be the copy editor, the front page editor, and then I would write for it. And took journalism classes. And what newspaper writing does is it teaches you, you have to write where the conclusion comes first. So unlike writing something, and then at the end, we get the story. Here, the income's first. And you have to write it with this incredibly rigid discipline so that every succeeding thing that you write, the most important part is in the first sentence of the first paragraph, the first paragraph, not more than two sentences. Who won't wear women, why and how? That's the first one. Then the next most important thing, that's the second paragraph, no more than two sentences. Then the next one, same thing. What is that really? It's a principle component analysis of taking whatever event may have transpired, and putting it in this cogent way where the most important stuff starts, the beginning and you work your way down through it. Particularly where today's world, the tension spans are this short and time clearly is money. You wanna be able to communicate in the quickest and most concise fashion you can where you get your entire point across in the shortest amount of time. There's that old saying, If you can't tell your story in 15 seconds or less, no one's going to listen. And never been more treated right now. Because again, if you're getting 1,000 emails a day, I want to know in the first paragraph where I want to keep reading or not. As a macro thinker, man, it helped me so much. Frame every potential training decision, every single action, I could just, again, very quickly because I had learned how to do it, do that principal component analysis and hierarchize the most important things. And in trading, there's so many different variables that come into play, so many different variables that come in and making a training decision. Let's say that there's 10 really important things. Every one of those will have its day. It'll rotate through in terms of imports. Again, the INS great example, it's been completely undervalued for the past 24 months way off sides. It's so ripe to rally sharply but it needed a catalytic moment and that catalytic moment was this new president that was just a new premise that was just elected. So if you take valuation which everyone's ignored now for the past two years in the end, all of a sudden this This moment takes it from here and puts it at the very top. So a newspaper style, hugely important in developing any logic framework, what's the most important thing that's actionable at this second in that particular instrument? And what's my checklist and how do I hire our class, and that's literally what training is all about. If I were to ask you to do that on the topic of the principal components of a great life, how would that read? God, family, friends, when I think of friends, I think of fun. So if God, family, friends and fun, service, I mean my significance is not going to be from being a trader. I don't think that's where my significance is going to be. My significance is going to be first and foremost, going to be my family every now and then like I actually get joy out of thinking about my funeral because I'm so excited about the songs that I've chosen it'll be song I almost wish I wish I was gonna be alive for that because it's gonna be such a great time. I know my family and friends will enjoy it. I'm thinking of family because again if I think about the end of my life and I look back I'm not gonna be thinking about the 87 crash or Bitcoin. I'm gonna be thinking about who I loved and who loved me. That's what I'm gonna be thinking about. And what kind of relationships we had and what kind of times we had. I think the professional aspects are these great tools that allow you to do more meaningful things in the things that count, which is what have you done with your family? What have you done with your friends? How have you served others? What have you done to leave a legacy of happiness and betterment and goodness to the people that you've been privileged enough to come in contact with? And what I say, legacy, I don't mean words, I mean deeds. So what have you done that have allowed other people to enjoy and better their station life their happiness in life for me that's that's the most significant thing by far and away. Do you always believe in God? I have trouble at times I mean yes I do but I mean I you know my faith is tested like I think anybody faith is tested and I wish I could say well the hundred percent certainly I know I'm going to heaven I certainly pray every night the most The most important aspect is, and the reason why I think it's so important for us all to have God in our lives is you've got to have some code by which you live. I think Christianity, Judaism, a variety of these have these wonderful, doctrinaire ways of bringing stability and order and goodness and people's lives, they give you something that you can lead a productive life with and in a way that's very sustainable and allows you to, again, engage with everyone around you with great happiness and joy. What about Africa? I love Africa so much because I love the outdoors. Can I just say this, it's taken me 70 years to get this point. My new new thing is I love to find peak spring and peak fall. It doesn't have to be Africa. You can find that day in a neighborhood and in peak spring when the colors are vibrant and when the fragrance is just overwhelming. You can find it to the minute in the right place and I've never felt so alive in my life. Now look for that. I'm now travel the United States for that moment because I know when peak spring is in Georgia. I know what peak spring is in Tennessee. I know when it is in New York City. And I know when it is north of New York City because New York City is normally a week behind this place. I go to an upstate. Same thing in fall. There'll be a day where you get the intersection and the northeast is the best because it has the greatest biodiversity where you see the greatest color. And you can see those color changes by day by tree. And you find that day with that intersection of color change. I'm telling you, if you find that day, you can feel the energy. I've never felt so like you feel God at those moments. It's such a wondrous moment as you go through how life is changing so fast. And one in case of spring, obviously, is blooming in the case of fall, it's transitioning into a more dormant period, but they are so energetic and so exciting. And I highly recommend people trying to, in their neighborhood, find that day. Boy, make sure you're walking that afternoon before sunset. Oh my gosh, it's a joy. You've lived so much life in the years that you've been with us. And I never asked the question of general advice. I think it's kind of a lame question. But I'm tempted to close the conversation there with what you would just tell people listening that this audience is passionate, they're curious, they're searching for their thing, or they're trying to get to be the greatest at their thing, they're competitive. What would you tell them based on the sum total of all your amazing life and experience? My mother used to always say, and I think this is what this country really needs right now. You've just got to kill him with kindness. So you're gonna wake up, Some days it's gonna be terrible. You're gonna be in a bad mood. There's gonna be something on TV that's gonna make you angry. And particularly in these times right now, my gosh, when everyone wants to demonize the opposition, I think we've gotta realize it doesn't have to be that way. We can humbly devote ourselves to finding the kindness within ourselves and the goodness within ourselves and transmit that to somebody else during that day. I think that's the secret to happen is you don't have to worry about yourself. You have to worry about how am I going to brighten someone else's day. And with that attitude, one, you'll always be happy. I'm just gonna spend this one day doing this one outward act. And if you repeat it enough, again, everything is about the reps, right? Pretty soon you take a should and they will become I am's. So if you take that mentality that I want to do this wonderful act of kindness for someone else, pretty soon you become an incredibly kind person. It becomes natural, it becomes instinctive and organic and it's just, it's gonna brighten your day and you'll have just such a positive outlook on life. And I think that's, I think that's where we, I think that's where we need to intentionally begin to do every single person. For sure, it'll be a much better world. Paul, thank you so much for your time, thank you. Your finance team isn't losing money on big mistakes. It's leaking through a thousand tiny decisions nobody's watching. Rampe puts guard rails on spending before it happens. Real-time limits, automatic rules, zero firefighting. Try it at ramp.com slash and best. As your business grows, Vanta scales with you, automating compliance and giving you a single source of truth for security and risk. Learn more at vanta.com slash invest. Ridge line is redefining asset management technology as a true partner, not just a software vendor. They've helped firms five X in scale, enabling faster growth, smarter operations, and a competitive edge. Visit ridgelineapps.com to see what they can unlock for your firm. Every investment firm is unique and generic AI doesn't understand your process. Rogo does, it's an AI platform built specifically for Wall Street connected to your data, understanding your process and producing real outputs. Check them out at rogo.ai slash invest. The best AI and software companies from open AI to cursor to perplexity use work OS to become enterprise ready overnight, not in months. Visit workOS.com to skip the unglamorous infrastructure work and focus on your product.
