Timestamp: 2026-05-07T09:36:38.323991
Title: Movez - Jane Street pays $750K year for Senior Engineer  This 1-hour lecture... 2052069575219458050
URL: https://x.com/0xMovez/status/2052069853062664679?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 1:08:16

Description:
这是一篇关于简街（Jane Street）交易环境下的生产工程（Production Engineering）深度分享。以下是针对该文本的结构化分析、严谨评估及逻辑架构图。

---

### **PART 1. 作者思想地图 (Author's Map)**

**1. 核心论点 (Core Thesis)**
在高风险、低容错的自动化交易环境中，传统的基于服务水平目标（SLO）的概率性运维模型是失效的；必须构建一种基于**确定性事件告警（Event-based Alerting）**、**深度业务语境融合**以及**多维防御体系**的生产工程范式，以应对“破产级”的尾部风险。

**2. 论据支撑 (Evidentiary Base)**
*   **历史案例（负面典型）：** 瑞穗证券（Mizzuho）的“乌龙指”事件（损失270亿日元）、骑士资本（Knight Capital）因部署错误在45分钟内损失4.5亿美元并导致破产。
*   **简街内部实践：** 运行了10年的生产工程经验；“FillTooGood”（成交过好）等正交告警逻辑；“What Changed”元数据检索工具。
*   **环境特征：** 交易日的剧烈波动（开盘/收盘峰值）、极高的合规要求（SEC不接受99.99%的成功率）、外部依赖的不可控性。

**3. 逻辑授权 (Logical Warrant)**
由于单次错误的代价可能导致公司破产（Ruin Risk），因此逻辑推导如下：如果系统存在极高杠杆的负面反馈，那么任何非零的错误率都是不可接受的 -> 必须从“统计学管理”转向“枚举法管理”，即通过代码显式捕获每一个边缘案例（Edge Case）。

**4. 声明范围 (Stated Scope)**
*   **适用：** 自动化交易系统、对每笔订单都有极高要求的金融环境。
*   **免责：** 并非所有领域都需要如此高压，简街内部非核心交易链路也会采用常规SRE方法。

**5. 隐含对手 (Implicit Opponent)**
传统的“互联网式”SRE/DevOps范式。作者反对将基础设施与业务逻辑剥离，反对仅关注系统可用性（如Ping、CPU）而忽视业务语义（如成交价格异常）的监控方式。

**6. 预期效果 (Intended Takeaway)**
读者应认识到：监控系统必须比交易系统更可靠；生产工程师必须具备交易员级别的业务知识；告警的信噪比是企业的生命线。

---

### **PART 2. 苛刻但极度公平的审查 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair REVIEW)**

**1. 强化防御 (Steelman)**
在“盈亏不对称”的极端环境下，简街的策略是极其理性的。当一个Bug能瞬间清空银行账户时，追求“中位数延迟”或“整体可用性”毫无意义。这种将“业务正确性”置于“系统存活性”之上的做法，是生存的唯一法门。

**2. 最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)**
该架构严重依赖**“人类的认知带宽”**。
> “It forces you to think about every single edge case... we really catalog every edge case that comes up.”
**批判：** 随着系统复杂度的非线性增长，依靠人类工程师去“枚举”所有边缘案例在逻辑上是不可持续的。当代码库达到千万行级别，这种“基于事件的显式编程告警”会导致认知负荷爆炸，最终重演骑士资本的悲剧——不是没有告警，而是在告警海洋中人类无法识别出真正的异常。

**3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)**
作者提到的案例（骑士资本、瑞穗）多为“已知风险”的失控。然而，现代系统故障更多源于**“涌现性行为（Emergent Behavior）”**。
*   **缺失：** 作者未提及如何应对“未知的未知”。事件驱动告警的前提是“你能预见到这个错误”。如果预见不到，这种监控方案就会出现巨大的盲区，而SLO监控虽然粗糙，却有时能捕捉到这些异常趋势。

**4. 隐藏前提 (Hidden Premises)**
*   **前提 A：** 认为“业务上下文”可以在工程师之间完美传递。
*   **前提 B：** 假设“信噪比管理”可以通过文化自觉来完成。
**质疑：** 如果没有自动化的告警抑制和关联分析，单纯靠“文化”来维持信噪比，在面临大规模网络波动或交易所故障时，这种模型会迅速崩溃。

**5. 盲区 (The Blind Side)**
**沉没成本与人才门槛：** 这种模式极度昂贵。它要求生产工程师既是顶尖的分布式系统专家，又是半个交易员。这种人才极难获取且难以规模化。简街的成功可能更多归功于其精英人才密度，而非这套监控哲学本身。对于大多数机构，模仿这种“全栈语境要求”可能会导致运维团队在业务和技术之间双重失职。

**6. 致命一击 (One Hit Kill)**
**如果“事件化告警”真的如此有效，为什么骑士资本在收到了报错邮件后依然走向了毁灭？** 
这证明了：问题的核心不在于“捕获事件”，而在于“事件发生后的决策系统”。简街的分享侧重于如何发现问题，但在如何防止“人类在压力下做出错误决策（如错误回滚）”这一决策自动化领域语焉不详。

**7. 如何验证 (What Would Settle It)**
对比两组团队：一组采用简街的“事件驱动+深度上下文”模式，另一组采用“高度自动化+SLO驱动+严格变更隔离”模式。在面对从未见过的系统级联故障时，观察哪组的平均恢复时间（MTTR）更短。

---

### **PART 3. 逻辑架构图 (Mermaid Conceptual Map)**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    subgraph SG_Core["💎 核心哲学：破产风险下的生产工程"]
        A["<b>交易环境生产工程</b><br/>核心目标：防止毁灭性亏损 (Anti-Ruin)"]
        style A fill:#FFD700,stroke:#DAA520,stroke-width:3px,color:#333,font-weight:bold
    end

    subgraph SG_Environment["📡 生产环境特征 (The Reality)"]
        E1["<b>每笔订单皆关键</b><br/>100%成功率要求"]
        E2["<b>交易逻辑极其危险</b><br/>程序直连银行账户/高杠杆"]
        E3["<b>时间敏感性</b><br/>开/收盘峰值与外部依赖"]
        E4["<b>内部用户模型</b><br/>高带宽、低噪音的沟通需求"]
        E1 & E2 & E3 & E4 --> B["传统SLO/统计学运维失效"]
    end

    subgraph SG_Method["🛠️ 简街解决方案 (The Methodology)"]
        direction TB
        M1["<b>事件驱动告警 (Event-based)</b><br/>枚举并显式处理所有边缘案例"]
        M2["<b>正交/认识论告警</b><br/>如 'FillTooGood' (不看原因，看结果)"]
        M3["<b>深度业务语境</b><br/>PE必须懂交易语义 (如 Spoos = S&P 500)"]
        M4["<b>多维防御 (Defense in Depth)</b><br/>不同团队编写多重风险检查点"]
        B --> M1 & M2 & M3 & M4
    end

    subgraph SG_Review["⚔️ 批判性审视 (Hostile Review)"]
        direction TB
        R1["<b>认知瓶颈论</b><br/>人类无法枚举无限的复杂性"]
        R2["<b>精英主义陷阱</b><br/>极高的人才密度不可复制"]
        R3["<b>决策失误风险</b><br/>告警捕获不等同于正确决策 (参考骑士资本)"]
        R4["<b>成本过高</b><br/>工程时间与业务收益的权衡"]
        M1 -.-> R1
        M3 -.-> R2
        M2 -.-> R3
        M4 -.-> R4
    end

    subgraph SG_Case["📝 案例演练：FillTooGood 逻辑"]
        C1["行情数据分区 Bug"] -- "引发" --> C2["异常交易行为"]
        C2 -- "触发" --> C3["FillTooGood 告警 (正交监控)"]
        C3 -- "结合" --> C4["交易员业务反馈 (Stale Data)"]
        C4 -- "定位" --> C5["快速阻断与修复"]
    end

    A --> E1
    B --> M1
    M1 --> C1
    R1 --> A

    %% --- Node Styles ---
    classDef main fill:#FFFACD,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:2px,color:#333
    classDef env fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#1565C0,stroke-width:2px,color:#1A237E
    classDef method fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20
    classDef review fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#EF5350,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#C62828
    classDef case fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#7B1FA2,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#4A148C

    class A main
    class E1,E2,E3,E4,B env
    class M1,M2,M3,M4 method
    class R1,R2,R3,R4 review
    class C1,C2,C3,C4,C5 case

    %% --- Subgraph Background Styles ---
    style SG_Core fill:#FFFDE7,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Environment fill:#F1F8E9,stroke:#689F38,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Method fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#1976D2,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Review fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#D32F2F,stroke-width:2.5px
    style SG_Case fill:#FAFAFA,stroke:#9E9E9E,stroke-width:2px
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
I've been at Jane Street for a little under 10 years now. I've moved around the firm a bit, but I've spent the bulk of my time doing something close to what we would now call production engineering here at Jane Street. And I'm going to talk a little bit about some of the interesting challenges that come from the intersection of that discipline with the trading environment. I'm going to start with an intro. That's this. I won't infinitely recurse. I'll then go into some relevant features of the production environment. What makes trading such an interesting space in which to operate software and production and in what ways is it similar to other domains. And for those of you who work at other trading firms, some of this will be familiar. Some of it may be different, maybe the ways in which we place emphasis on things might be different. It's been about 15 minutes on that. I'll actually try to spend a little less time, but we'll see if I succeed. And then we'll talk about what it means for us at Jane Street. How should we think about building technology, processes, culture, and light of the features of the production environment? I kind of hope to spend a little more than 15 minutes. But again, we'll see how I do. And then I'll talk about a sample incident that will hopefully make everything feel a bit more concrete. And then I'll leave as much time for Q&A as possible. Hopefully that sounds good. So a few more words of introduction. First off, I've said production engineering at a trading firm. Production engineering, similar words might be DevOps or SRE. It's kind of similar concepts. This is one plausible definition. I don't claim it's a perfect one, but maybe it's good enough. Maybe a more human definition is roughly, we've got a bunch of software running. It runs on computers that have hardware failures in data centers that have cooling outages, over network connections that get their cables cut, connected to exchanges that have their own issues. And of course, we occasionally deploy our own bugs. And so how do we technically, operationally manage all this stuff in production? And again, especially when things go wrong. So that's basically the problem statement. And then I said, add a trading firm. So what is trading? What is a trading firm do? very basic basics of trading, sort of a system diagram that you need to know. You start off with some trading system, could be a human trader, could be an automated system, someone coming up with some strategy. The primary input into a trading strategy in our model is gonna be market data. So an exchange can tell you recent orders, buys, sells, et cetera, and some stock. And a trader who's gonna decide what to do with that is going to be interested in those order, take-by-take order information. And then they're going to come up with some strategy, some trades that they want to execute. And when they do that, they're going to need to execute it somehow. So we're going to connect to some sort of order entry port, I might call it an order engine, throughout the course of this talk. That's going to be directly connected to an exchange. We might have a lot of different order entry ports connected to a lot of different exchanges. And that order entry port is going to light to the exchange and also read from the exchange. The exchange will act the orders or reject them, communicate that it has been filled, some way, like that. That may be a thing that has already in a lot of your heads. Maybe it's like your model of trading already. There's one more piece that people forget about a lot. I actually won't talk about it a ton in this talk, but would love to later, because it's the area in which I first started at Jane Street. So it is near to my heart. But once you've done a trade, you also need to tell the world and yourself that you've done it. So you need to keep track of your positions. That is then going to feed back into your trading strategy, which needs to know what its positions are to correctly perform its logic. And you also need to upload those trades to regulators, also clearing firms and other external entities. That is the basic system diagram that you kind of need to have in the back of your head. And I want to go into one more thing, which is I have said the word order a bunch. Like you send an order to the exchange. Let's look at what an order is. When we talk about an order, we're talking about an instruction to an exchange to execute a certain trade. And this is, I would say, the simplest order that you can come up with. There's five main key components to this order that I want to talk about. There's the side you can buy, or in this case, cell, there's the quantity. One share, maybe 100 shares, maybe 1,000 shares. There's the instrument symbol ticker. What is the thing I'm buying or selling? In this case, j-com could be Apple. And then there's a price which is going to consist of a quantity and a currency. That's the basics of an order. They can get arbitrarily complicated with more foot guns, multipliers, quoting conventions, all sorts of funky stuff. But this example is going to be good enough for the purposes of this talk. That's the intro. Now let's get into some more complicated features of the trading environment. Feature number one is every order is important. This is notably different from many other web services where maybe it's not the end of the world if one clients request to your web server fails or is a little slow. It's not so bad they can wait, try again, Maybe worse case, you end up with an unhappy customer. It's not really the end of the world. Returning to our previous example of an order, simple, but if you were to get any of those details wrong, it could be catastrophic. What if you make a mistake in any one of those economic details to give one hypothetical example? What if you were to make this mistake and sell 600,000 shares at a price of one yen instead of selling one share at a place of 600,000 yen. Quick mental math, if you were to execute this submit this order, and if it were to get filled, you would lose roughly 600,000 squared yen. Now, you may think, OK, this is a pretty implausible bug to write, like that's a huge mistake. Just don't make a mistake that big. But 1,000 engineers writing code that needs to be handled by automated systems and manual trading. So you have to avoid fat finger bugs. There are different auto types. They do get more complicated. There's different exchange protocols. You kind of need to be 100% sure that you're not going to somehow make this mistake. And you might think, OK, it doesn't like this system kind of save you, like, OK, sure. Surely someone submitted this mistake and like, you can sue or something, right? Like, no one's going to actually let this go through. Unfortunately, this is not like some random hypothetical example that I came up with. This was a real thing that happened December 8, 2005, a trader at Mizzouho made this exact mistake. And he immediately tried to cancel the order. The exchange did not accept his cancel. The order went through. It was filled. The firm lost 27 billion yen. Japan's primary stock index fell about 2%. And I think that trader was pretty unhappy as was the firm. They sued. They won some money, maybe like a quarter of the total losses they were requesting. So I would not count on the financial system saving you. You just cannot count on that. So that's one reason why every order is important. Separately, there's compliance concerns. The SEC is just not going to be happy with 99.99% success rate. Like they actually want you to report every order. you will get fined if you have a few thousand missing reports here and there. So yeah, in general, feature number one of the production environment, every order is important. Maybe I can more generally, I can generalize that into trading is just generally scary, especially automated trading, where we're connecting computer programs to a bank accounts and telling it to operate in a tight loop. Like anyone who has written software should know that that is a scary sentence. It would be scary enough if the logic were all trivial. But logic actually gets pretty complicated. The price might be more complicated than that simple one number price I showed you before. There could be a price with a multiplier. The multiplier for a given instrument could be different depending on the context in which you're talking about that instrument, whether it's like pre-trade or post-trade. And remember, getting any single one of these details wrong can be catastrophic. Or it could be just a little bad, but if you do it enough times in a tight loop, that can be catastrophic, which I'll get to in a second. And then the last bullet point there about adverse selection, I just want to say, sometimes these examples can seem contrived like, OK, sure you roll this bug, but nothing bad is actually going to happen in the real world, right? And the problem with the trading environment is, no. something bad will happen in this environment. As soon as you decide you want to do a bad trade, every other market participant very eagerly wants to do that trade with you. As fast as you or they possibly can. So once you make a mistake, it is sort of immediately pounced upon, which is, I think, pretty unique to the trading environment. And again, if you think this is theoretical paranoia, this is a real thing, quick show of hands Who has heard of Night Capital or Night Day? OK, less than half. OK, about half. I'm not going to spend too much time on this, but I just want to recap this story. So the basic story of Night Day is they were a trading firm like Jane Street. This story happens in 2012, I believe. They were among the leading market makers, automated trading firms based in the United States at the time. And they had some dead code, which, if triggered, would lose them money. There was a bug. It would lose them money on every order that went through that system. It would only be triggered by another system sending a certain config flag. And that other system never sent that flag. So this never triggered in production. Then they did two things simultaneously. One is they repurposed the config flag to do something else instead, implement some new feature. I think this was to save themselves a version protocol, version bump, protocol upgrade. I have done this before. We purpose to config flag to save myself a version bump. So this new feature that they were implementing did not have the bug. So this is a good thing. This change, they're avoiding the bug now. Then they started sending the flag from that other system. So you can kind of see, like, uh-oh, better hope. step one goes, well, that's going to be a problem. You can probably predict that step one did not go well. It mostly did. They had, I think, eight instances of this system, seven of them successfully upgraded, and one of them failed to upgrade. It actually did send notification emails that it failed to upgrade, but this was ignored. So the open happens, and they immediately start losing money. Every trade that goes through the system that didn't upgrade, lose his money. The engineers immediately identify the system as the culprit, and what do you do when you just rolled to a new version, and it is hemorrhaging money? You roll back. They did not identify that it was the system that failed to roll, that was losing money. They thought it was the system that rolled. I think a pretty intuitive, reasonable thing to think, quite frankly. So they pretty quickly rolled back, And that 8x to the speed at which they were losing money. 45 minutes later, they had lost about half a billion dollars. And they basically ceased to exist at that point. They had accumulated billions of dollars of positions that went against them. And they their own stock price collapsed. They were bought by a competitor a few months later. And now we talk about it and talk like this as a cautionary tale. There's a ton of nuance to this story that I'm glossing over. I could have a whole talk on lessons from night capital day. And that is not this talk. The main thing I'm trying to convince you of is just that this is not a theoretical concern. This is a thing that happens and that we think a lot about. And yeah, there are some. SEC has a great report on this. If you enjoy late reading, it's actually an amazing close-mortem, and you should read all the details. So that's feature of the production environment. Number two, feature number one, every order is important. Feature two, trading is generally pretty scary. Feature three, a little different. Timing matters a lot. Our system follows the trading day. So systems shut down in the morning and they start up at the beginning of the day. And nothing really happens in these times at the beginning and end of the day. And then there's these huge spikes at the market open and the market close. People in the industry may be surprised at just how large a percent of our overall volume happens in those small windows. And in between, there's a lower constant level of trading. This is a slightly simplified model. Stuff happens during the day, too. So sometimes there's special trading events. FOMC minutes, this means every few months the Fed will announce various economic data or their policies, this is a big trading event that that's one example. So a lot of these, we have these planned trading events that we know about. Sometimes the events are unplanned, Trump tweets something or a country invades another country or something and volatility goes haywire. That's the thing that happens as well. And then to say one more thing about timing, External systems, we have a lot of external dependencies that are really anchored to time. So there's a pretty interesting flow throughout the day where at 7.30 AM every day, you download some metadata from some external service that then you load into your systems, you load those into another set of systems, some other, you download some more metadata, and you've got this kind of ticking clock of about two hours every day where a bunch of things need to happen in concert, and if anything slows down, you need to scramble to fix it before the open. There's a few examples listed here. There's more examples that I could give, but this is the kind of shape of what the training day might look like. So that's another, I'll say that's like interesting feature of the production environment. Number three is just that timing matters a lot. The last feature I want to talk about is we have internal users. This is actually, in my opinion, the most interesting of all of them. It's pretty cool to work in an environment where all of the users of our technology are mostly within the same building, or at least within the same company. And I'll talk more about the implications of that later, but it is just important to know that if something is wrong with our system, we can talk directly to the users in a very high bandwidth, high fidelity, sort of no BS way. I don't have to couch my language and pretend Like I didn't be worried about some gravitational impact of the service going down or something. I can just say exactly what's wrong and our user can talk to us about exactly the impact that's happening on them. And that's going to really affect the way that we respond to things in the production environment. That is the main features of the production environment. I think I am ahead of schedule if I timed it right. So I'm happy about that. So now let's talk about the implications. What does Jane Street do as a result of those interesting features? It's struck by talking about monitoring. So you might be traditional with maybe more SLO-based monitoring. That might look something like this. So the error rate is below 0.01%, i.e. 99.99% of our requests should succeed. This is a pretty standard shape of alert that you might monitor. We do very little of this. There's a problem, which maybe you've identified, which is I just said 100% of orders are important. So if the 0.01% of order that you want to cancel is that one that's really, really important, the one that's going to bankrupt you, then this alert based on this SLO is not going to help you very much. That's not just true in the order space. You might say like 99.99% of our instrument symbology should be accurate, but you know, you really can't have, you can't be trading the wrong symbol on any order. And the fact that every order is important, it's sort of every aspect of the order is 100% important as well. So we actually do very little SLO-based monitoring in our live trading systems. What do we do instead? We do a lot of event-based monitoring and alerting. What does event-based monitoring mean? It means we have a section of code where it says, if this condition happens, then raise this error for a human to look at. And the main feature of this, I say, feature it's kind of a blessing and a curse, is it forces you to think about every single edge case. So in traditional SLO-based monitoring, one of the awesome things about it is you can ignore unimportant edge cases. Who cares if there's some weird condition on some weird browser version with some weird plugin configuration that causes 12 users to have the web page load slowly. It's just not important. You don't need to waste an engineer's time dealing with this condition. That's a great feature for people who can set up that kind of SLO-based monitoring. With event-based alerting, what we're saying is actually we need to look into that edge case. and we are going to decide consciously in code or maybe in some config that's attached to the code that we need to at least identify that issue and verify that we've decided it's not worth an alert. So we really, at least in these like trading-based systems, we really catalog every edge case that comes up and decide whether or not to learn on them. We don't necessarily like fix every single edge case. Sometimes we have decided that we can fail safely in some way but we really do enumerate all of them and modify our alerting accordingly. And so some benefits and downsides of this. So the benefit, obviously, you get the safety that we're after. There's some other nice things. You get a really high fidelity of alert detail. In SLO-based monitoring, you might have this annoying problem where you've decided, OK, the rate of failure has gone up two times over the last month for a wide variety of reasons. Maybe you need to do some data analysis to figure out which ones are most problematic, or if you should just change your SLO or what the deal is. It can be a lot of annoying debugging. When you have a specific call site with a specific alert, you know exactly what happened and what you need to fix. And that direct link to the call site is also nice. You can just look at the code that generated the specific error condition, rather than having to look at a broad range of symptoms. The downsides, as I've kind of alluded to, are you have to enumerate every edge case, which is just a lot of work. It can be noisy. If you've failed to enumerate every edge case, there can be tribal knowledge where you decide, oh, yeah, this thing is happening again, but we know that's not an issue. And it can be hard to change alerts. Instead of just changing a config, change 9.99 to 9.95, you have to change the logic that is generating the alert, which in turn means you need to understand the code base pretty deeply. It makes it harder, I would say, to have some far off distant, like, operations team that's monitoring your system without being deeply familiar with it. All that being said, we do use plenty of metrics-based alerts as well, both for many cases where there's not a real risk concern, and also to measure like long-term health of our systems and improvements to, like, our performance as a whole. But a lot of what we do is this event-based alerting. And I'd like to talk a little bit more about what kind of event-based alerts we really like. There is a classic mantra and SRE land alert on symptoms rather than causes. Again, quick show of hands. Who is familiar with this phrase or concept? Sick. OK, very few people. Excellent. I will not rush past it then. So a classic example here is you've got some crud app, you know, some web server that's connected to a database. And as you're writing this system, you might think to yourself, I am going to raise an alert whenever the database goes down. And your logic that you're intuiting is probably something like the database going down is obviously bad and unintended. And it is obviously going to cause user impact. If they try to connect to my web server when my database is down, they're going to get 500 errors and they won't be able to connect. And furthermore, when I get this alert of the database is down, I know exactly what the root causes. The root cause of the 500 errors is that the database is down. So I need to fix the database. If I were to not alert on it, then I might get a user complaint that they're getting 500 errors. And I then need to debug logs, whatever, to eventually find out what I could have known all along, which is that the database is down. So that might be what you intuitively think. And I think, in many places at Jane Street, and I mostly believe this, we mostly think that's wrong. And you should not alert on your database going down. And the basic logic for this is you're going to need to alert on the 500 errors anyway. Because the database going down is not the only reason why your users might get 500 errors. There's a bunch of other reasons. and you probably can't list all of them. So you need to alert on the 500 errors. And so if you alert on both, now you're getting duplicate alerts. That's noisy, that's a problem. That's maybe problem number one, and that's kind of like the best case. And the worst case, which is actually I'm going to claim very likely, is that a lot of those assumptions I just said about the database going down is obviously bad, obviously unintended, obviously going to cause user impact. Those assumptions are actually not true. It may be true at the moment that you're writing your app. But over time, you're going to realize that you occasionally need to do database maintenance and you're going to come up with some scheme where you have a backup database and you can actually do safe database maintenance with no user impact. And so you're going to say, OK, well, I'll silence the alerts during my database maintenance window. And then, at some point, you're going to do an ad hoc maintenance. And you're going to raise an alert. And then after that, you're going to say, ah, OK, are going to create some RPC for the person doing maintenance so that they can proactively silence the alerts for the next three hours as I do my ad hoc maintenance. And it's just going to be duct tape on top of duct tape, all covering over the fact that actually, none of your users care about your database. They care about the 500 errors. It is true that the part I said about it being convenient to have the alert pointing to the database being down. That is true, that is convenient aspect of debugging. But there are less noisy, less costly ways of getting the same benefit. You can attach the metadata that the database is down to the alert that's generated. Or you can have a monitoring dashboard that displays information about the database so that when you see the alert, you know to go to this dashboard and it will be there. You can quickly draw the connection without having to look at another alert, which might wake your on-call staff up just because of routine database maintenance. So we do a lot of symptom-based alerting in general. And one particular variety I want to call out is what I'm going to call orthogonal alerts, maybe based on epistemic health, rather than service health. And I kind of think of these as an extreme version of a symptom-based alert. This is a case where we really have no idea what the root cause even might be. In fact, we don't even detect a problem with any particular service. We just know that something is weird about the world. Something that some service is outputting seems wrong in some way. And this may be a lot of abstract, so I'll give two examples. We have an alert called fill2good, or trade2good. This means we made too much money. And this is my favorite alert at James Street. I don't know if it is kosher to say that you have a favorite alert, not a fun party trick or something, but it is my favorite alert. It can catch so many issues in so many different places in our tech stack. If you have problems with market data, if you have problems with instrument generation, if you have problems with the order engine, if you have problems with your trading strategy, if you have a log trader, if a trader has fat-fingered something, anywhere in your trading stack, something can be caught by this one alert. That's like sort of symptom-based alerting on crack or something. Another example might be high percent of market volume. If you're normally 3% of market volume and all of a sudden you're 60% of market volume, I don't know what happened, but that's pretty weird and indicates that maybe something has gone kind of strafficly wrong. By the way, that one looks a little more SLO-y to me, which is cool and fine. I think the main thing is it's a bit orthogonal to any specific indicator of service health. And yeah, I would say what those two examples have in common is that they're not related to any particular technical failure in any particular service. They're more indicating that our understanding of what the cohesive unit of our systems is doing is wrong at some high abstract level. So these are some of the alerts that we like. Whenever you raise an alert, you have to think hard about who's going to receive the alert. And I think these examples are a really good use case of that. I just said they're not tied to any particular service. So which service owner should receive the alert? And I kind of like you guys to spend like 20 seconds just like thinking about this question, like if you have this alert on like feel too good, like who should look at that? and how should they respond to it? Yeah, literally spend 20 seconds to think about it. I'm not going to call on people, because I think the mics won't work and stuff. Also, there's no right answer. It's a totally underspecified question. But I do want you to think about that question in the back of your mind. I'll hug him back to this in a little bit. I'm curious what you guys thought. Just something to think about for now. The last thing I wanted to mention in this section is we do obsess over signal to noise ratio. So I have basically no secret sauce here, except to say that this is just a thing that the firm has to take really seriously as part of its culture. I think it's a pretty neat thing about Jane Street that traders, devs, production engineers, sort of everyone deeply understands that noisy alerts are worse than useless. And we care so much about human attention that we do end up spending a lot of time tweaking alerts, thresholds, alert logic, whatever, going over every edge case so that we can have a good signal to noise ratio. And I think you probably can't really do this event based alerting unless you just have a really strong cultural foundation of caring about signal to noise ratio, because it is so prone to noise the alerts, that you need it embedded within the culture, not just the tech nerds or whatever, but like everyone, traders, et cetera. Yeah, part of the culture with that. Yeah. Cool. Another thing I want to talk about is defense in depth. So I had drawn a diagram similar to this earlier, but I've now added this external risk enforcer. And I've been talking a lot about alerts, but I had previously said that like any problem is kind of strafics. So like, what if we fail to raise an alert? You know, what if we have a bug in the alert generation logic? And I think the only way that I know of to solve that problem is to just have a lot of defense and depth and have a lot of things that need to go wrong, hopefully in an uncorrelated way for you to be confident that you're not going to have big problems. So what we do is we run similar alerts in different systems written by different teams and try not to share too much underlying metadata logic. So the trading system might have its own risk checks monitored by a trader who's applying some judgment, the order entry port has its own risk checks, and then you're going to have some external system that reads in after the fact that submits maybe leases to the order entry port that has its own risk checks. And again, importantly, these are all written by different teams. So if one alert has failed to generate the other alert, hopefully, will. And the main weakness in this plot in this approach is probably they have some common dependencies. And so you're going to have to look really carefully at those common dependencies, and you might need duplicate versions of those dependencies as well. Some more about defense in depth. This is kind of going to be similar to the Phil II good thing I talked about, which is we monitor technical health, monitored by technical staff, and we monitor trading health, trading impact, monitored by trading staff. And again, those are two sort of orthogonal sets of alerts that hopefully can cover a similar ground of thing. So tech system monitoring is going to look like, is our software, our hardware experience and technical issues, are our systems able to execute trading decisions as expected? Do we have external connectivity issues? Whereas trading impact is going to be, are we having the market impact that we expect? What P&L are we accruing? are resending the same orders that we intended to send. And like the Phil II good case, sometimes traders noticing weird trading impact can inform technical staff of problems with our technical health. And the very last thing I want to say about monitoring is it is not optional at a trading firm. I sort of hear of other firms where it's kind of like an ancillary thing, maybe like the project you give to the new joiner. If it crashes, you know, who cares? It's not serving any customers. It's not a huge deal if it goes down. And that is not the way we treat monitoring at Teen Street. We basically don't trade unless it's being monitored. And so monitoring systems are among our most robust, most well tested, most redundant. We have failovers, et cetera. So that's just another sort of philosophy around monitoring at Teen Street. OK. There's one more thing I wanted to talk about, sort of how we treat, how we react in our production environment to the nuances of the trading environment. And that is business context is key. So production engineers and all technical staff who respond to things in production, which is basically everyone, need deep business context. And actually a corollary, or not a corollary, The inverse of this is traders need technical context. So if you remember that bit I said earlier about how we have internal users, the ability to communicate effectively, I sort of implied was good and useful and nice, but you can only really take super advantage of it if you can actually speak really effectively together in a high fidelity way. Which means, I mean, another way of putting it is like, it raises the stakes and importance of being able to communicate effectively with people who speak kind of different languages from you. So, you know, communication bandwidth is much higher if a trader can say, you know, Spoo market data looks stale, and I, as a technical staff, know immediately that when he says Spoo's, he means index future of the S&P 500, and that I know that this trades on the CME, which is located in Aurora, Illinois, which therefore means that probably if I search for AUR in our list of order engines, I'm going to find the order engine that he's talking about. And so yeah, in an incident, if someone were to say Spoo's market data looks stale, it would probably take me two or three seconds to find the relevant order engine or market data feed that that trader is referring to. If you don't have the business context to know what that means, you might want to do, ask him what Spoo's means. It means this symbol name. I'm going to do some lookup table to see the exchanges that this symbol trades on, it's going to give me some identifier. I'm going to look at that identifier. It's going to give me some other thing. We can bypass all of that and know immediately what the person's talking about. This is a bit of a contrived sort of simple example, but I think deeper examples exist as well, where traders can say pretty nuanced things about the trading and technical staff who know some nuances of the trading can pinpoint the likely culprit or a system that might be at port. And lastly, I had also said that timing matters. And knowing those special market events is really important for technical staff to be aware of. You can know that different market events will impact different desks differently. Understanding those nuances can be really valuable. The reason our market data is going crazy right now is because, yes, Trump has treated about steel tariffs. We should be prepared to respond accordingly. I understand why we're getting these delays. This is what we should do. This sort of thing happens all the time. And it is really useful to be able to have that context and avoid doing things like rolling a system before some economic news that's going to affect the desk that that system is serving. That is the sort of what it means for production engineering. I think I'm still doing good on time, right? And now I want to get through a sample incident, which will hopefully make this all a little bit more concrete. This sample incident is loosely based off an amalgamation of a few separate incidents. So it's not 100% real, but it's pretty realistic, I would say. And hopefully interesting. So in the sample incident, 715, routine roll of order engine completes, new version standard, has some bug fixes, small refactor, tests pass, cool. 931, fill two goods raised to trading desks for a bunch of symbols. At this point, there is a lot of individual traders who have each received like one fill two good. And so no one quite knows that there's some widespread problem, but maybe a bunch of people might start looking into their own subset of trading. 932, the order engines team receives an alert called too many field two goods. And the order engine automatically holds. So now I'll do a quick sidebar. I had talked about who should receive the field two good alert. I think there's a lot of plausible answers. I think this is one possible answer, which is like maybe you have individual field two good alerts go to the trading strategy that is related to that specific symbol. And maybe you have some meta field two good alert that goes to some tech team. In our case, I had asked the question, if this could be an alert that covers anywhere in the tech stack, which tech team should receive the alert, and the thing that we do at James Street is we send them to the order engines team. And the basic idea is the order engine is the last point before you sort of get to the exchange. It's like the last point of safety before your risk is going out the door. And so theoretically, the order engines team should be the team to most reliably guarantee that we're not doing bad trades. There are last line of defense. That's our answer. I think there's a lot of plausible ones. That's what we do. So 933, order engines is going to start an incident. They use a system we have called what changed. What changed is you type in a system and it tells you all the things that changed in that system. You can imagine binary changes, but also any relevant config changes, any relevant metadata changes, anything like that. And they very quickly see that there was some code changes that were released this morning. And you look at a list of feature names. One of them says, you know, refactor of price serialization. OK, price serialization seems like potentially a pretty scary thing to get wrong. Hope I serialized the price right. Maybe the refactor caused a bug, so I start investigating that. Within a minute, as you start debugging the price derelation change, you realize that that change was actually rolled to many more order engines than just the one that you're currently investigating. You now have a bunch of interesting things to think about. So maybe you can kind of divide the belief story into a few possible categories. Let's assume for a second that we have 100% confidence in our alerting. That could indicate two things. One is it might indicate that the price serialization feature is a red herring. If our alerting is 100% correct, and the price serialization is a problem, then shouldn't all the other order engines also be raising filter goods? That's one thing you might think. The other thing you might think is, OK, well, maybe the price serialization change is to blame, but it's only affecting this order engine. for some reason, it's related to this specific protocol that this order engine is communicating. That's kind of like one category of thing. If you believe 100% in your alerting, the other possibilities you don't 100% believe that your alerting is perfect. And so you think this price serialization change was rolled out to a bunch of other order engines, and maybe those other order engines are actually also losing money, but we haven't yet discovered it. Maybe our fill-to-good thresholds are too risky or something. So at this point, we might start talking, like, should we be preemptively halting these other order engines that are rolled with this suspicious code change? And I don't think we're going to do this immediately. We're going to spend a few minutes talking about it. And that's what's happening right now. A few minutes later, as this discussion is taking place, traders join the incident call. And they report that market data looks stale. And so when I say stale here, what I mean is they're receiving, they would expect to receive second by second or faster ticks for each individual symbol they're trading. They're saying like, I would have expected to receive a bunch of ticks in Apple by now. But actually, I haven't received any. And I'm trading based on the market data that we got at 9.30 a.m. this morning at the open. That seems like a big problem. As soon as they report this, the entire incident bridge immediately thinks to themselves, ah, maybe this price serialization thing is all about herring, maybe the problem is market data. So let's have market data join the incident call. And the market data team will see some symbols that look stale. They pull up their monitoring and they say, yeah, I agree with the traders. These symbols, the last time they were updated was yesterday's close, they aren't marked as stale. So when I say marked, I still, what I mean is you might think that we have a system for reporting to clients of the market data that actually you should not use this market data. You should use something else instead. This one is not reliable. We're not doing that. So I think there might be a bug. I think people might be getting still market data in thinking it's live. They start debugging. You use our meta search tool. You know, you search one of the culprits symbols into our meta search tool. And you see that there was an exchange given trained, what I mean is an email from the exchange saying, yeah, in two weeks, as of today, we're going to split the market data feed. So again, split the market data feed, meaning maybe they're sending this market data over four partitions right now, the quarter of the symbol universe in each partition. They're going to create a fifth partition, and 20% of each of the old partitions will go to the new partition, you should start connecting to this new partition on this day. And the market data devs says, we should be robust to this, but I can imagine that we have a bug. And the bug is, we mark entire feeds as stale or not stale. And maybe we missed this EDC, like exchange driven change. And so all of the symbols that are on the new partition, we're just like not reading that new partition. We still have them internally in a config attached to the old partition. And we've said that old partition is current. So you guys are trading based on yesterday's market data, like the closing price yesterday. The market data team says, this shouldn't be possible. We have fixes for this. That's not how the logic works. But I can imagine that we have this bug. And we definitely did miss this EDC. I think we should keep trading halted right now on this order engine. I don't think we need to hold any of the other order engines, because this really does seem like the culprit. We're going to roll a config change to account for the change. They do that a few minutes later. They roll a config change. We turn on the order engine, see if we continue to get filled to goods. We don't. And we sort of conclude, OK, the situation is resolved. We found the culprit. And then people start doing some thinking, But how confident are we that we've actually solved the issue? Can we be convinced that the market data bug is the cause of the problem? And maybe two weeks ago, you get this exchange notification. We do some investigation and determine that there is a bug. The exchange did send us a notice that in the market data feed, the exchange tells us that we've moved these symbols. And we are supposed to have logic that reads this and knows to mark the symbols as stale, but we've actually never exercised this logic, because we've never missed an EDC before. So the sort of two things that have gone wrong, one is we missed the EDC, and two is we didn't handle the missing the EDC correctly. We had a bug in how we handled partitions, that code path had never been executed. So some interesting takeaways here. Again, my favorite alert, the Phil2Good is the thing that caught it, you know, an order engine alert caught an issue in the market data. That's pretty cool. Good job, Phil2Goods. I think in real life, other alerts probably would have caught it too, maybe like our trades not appearing in the market data. You know, I think you're going to imagine a trader saying, we did this trade in Apple but I don't see the trade that I just did in the market data that I'm receiving. So I think market data is stale. I think that alert probably would have raised. Some other takeaways going back to timing matters. So a pretty interesting thing in this case is nothing we did really mattered that much. We reacted really fast to everything, one minute in between each thing. I think that's a pretty impressive timeline. But actually, all the damage had been done as of 931. We missed the open. That is the problem. So I think a lot of the post-mortem here would have involved us asking whether we could have caught this anyway like 20 minutes earlier. If we could have caught this 20 minutes earlier with pre-open trading or some other alerting, then this quick resolution would have actually allowed us to make the open. You can also imagine cases where maybe at some point in this incident, the trader would have said, by the way, Fed minutes are in 20 minutes. And again, that would have really affected the way that we handled the incident. We would have had to do things with a certain level of urgency and we would have made different discussions along the way. The other thing I want to highlight is the communication between traders and tech. And again, I think this instance where the traders join the incident call and report that market data looks weird, that was sort of the turning point in this incident. That gave us the key insight we needed to know to call in market data. And that is really common in jane tree incidents, where from a technical perspective, it's what everything looks fine. It looks like our systems are behaving correctly, but when a trader can report that we're doing something wrong from their perspective, that can really speed up resolution. And again, this sanitized version of an incident maybe doesn't make it quite so clear how useful it is to be able to talk, understand each other's languages so that the incident isn't just like total chaos if people are not understanding what the other person is saying. That is really the main highlights, takeaways that I wanted to get out of this sample incident. Just to wrap things up, the things we sort of talked about here, we rely a lot on event-based alerting. Again, we have SLO-based alerting. We have metrics-based alerting, but those tend to be more for long-term health, whereas we rely a lot on event-based alerting for actual live trading system, sort of core of our alerting infrastructure. And we rely a lot on these orthogonal epistemic alerts to protect against a really broad range of failures. And then our monitoring systems are among our most critical. We make sure that they are more reliable than the trading systems they are monitoring. we would rather a trading system go down than the monitoring system go down. And we have a lot of defense and depth. For the most important systems, you just have to use multiple, again, maybe orthogonal systems to get at the same thing. You simply can't create a system so reliable that you can be 100% confident that it will be reliable enough. And support staff needs business knowledge and internal communication to be able to make high-quality decisions and move fast in an incident. And then one last thing I want to say, I just keep myself honest. This is all a little bit of an exaggeration. There's plenty of ways in which lots of production engineering at Jane Street looks a lot like it does elsewhere. But in this talk, I did want to highlight some of the differences. But there's plenty of areas in the firm where it's not quite so tight, hot loop of trading. And you can afford to take a more normal approach to SRE production engineering, whatever the case may be. We've got a pretty wide variety of that. That is the end of my talk, any questions? Yeah. Hi, Mar, thank you so much for the talk. I just had a quick question on the sample incident that you shared. So you did mention about the importance of monitoring systems and how critical they are. And as we look at the sample incident, the root cause was two weeks ago an email from Exchange, which is super important, right? So I was just curious as to, you know, for any monitoring, obviously we do have fancy monitoring systems, but emails come first. So weren't there any monitoring or any acknowledgement that someone, you know, acknowledged that email or monitoring that this email from Exchange was act or any change or any change had been rolled out in response to that. Yeah, great question. So this exact mistake is absolutely a mistake that we've made multiple times and we try really hard to avoid making and just the basic problem with these exchange different changes is we don't need to do anything for like 99.99% of them. And unfortunately, we can't convince the exchanges to only tell us about the ones that we care about. So they tell us about everything And we need to spend some manual effort trying to parse them. So I know nowadays we've got various LLMs and stuff trying to get at some of the signal to noise. And we've got a whole process for people staring at them and trying to make the right decision. But there have been multiple cases where people have just made the wrong decision, read the email, or determined it didn't affect us. And we were wrong about that fact. And that's what happened in this incident. Yeah. Yeah. So it's like follow up to the incidenting questions. It's like, how's it even possible that the time-stamped market data is not trading and the price is like from yesterday close? Sounds like it sounds a very important thing. And saying before, why would all the engines catch its fur? It seems like beliefs like the last piece of the software that cares about the stainless or market data. So this is interesting questions I have for what instance. And the second question is like, I have this, we're going to the event base alerts. So in the firm, we rely heavily on metric space alerts because once we start doing event base, it requires like in-depth innovations of this like every piece of the software being able to generate all these events. Is it like, how is it like this thing that always straight in James Street? Like, is it part of the responsibility to make sure these things is deeply integrated in the software by the production engineering team or is it like a predecessor every team has to do? OK, I'm going to, I think I caught all that, but I may not have so I'll go first question first. So it's not like a giant mistake to accidentally be reading yesterday's market data prices for today's live market data. One thing that maybe I glossed over in the beginning is we trade on a really wide range of exchanges from super well-behaved exchanges that are extremely liquid, and this would be wildly implausible to ever happen, to pretty weird sketch exchanges, where maybe they're most of the time really inactive, and it's actually not that crazy that you might not have had market data in a symbol for a given day. So I think in the incident that this was based off of, it was an exchange that normally has very low volume, But due to some weird news, became really, really high volume. Again, I think this might have been like a geopolitical. I forget the exact details, but I think it was some geopolitical thing where some country became very important. And so that country's exchange was kind of going crazy. And we, yeah, so basically, I think that was normally implausible, became very plausible. That is, I think, the first part of your first question. The second part is, isn't it implausible that the order engine catches the market data bug? And again, I guess the thing I would highlight is that the order engine, the error that the order engine is raising is not anything to do specifically with market data. It's to do with some like epistemic status about the world. And so the order engine didn't notice that market data was wrong. The order engine noticed that we sent a trade that seemed too good. And that helped us identify market data. Does that answer your first question? I'm sorry, I forget your second question. It's like when you start doing all this like event-based thing, why it's like really in-depth in-equations and software. And is it like, how does this things all the trade in the industry? It's like every software team needs to do this like in-equations or it's like all the engineers going to do some extra monitoring for a party stuff. Yeah, so I think in general, like we, most of our production engineering teams are really all our software teams, tend to monitor their own systems. So we don't have one team that is writing the core logic and another separate team that is writing the alerting around that system. The people who are developing the software are also deeply integrated into writing the alerting. Does that answer your question? Yeah, yeah, it's like, would that makes like every single team? They have to engineer specifically for every kind of events there's like built into software. So that's like, it was like for us, we rely heavily on metrics alerts. Because it's easy, it's kind of hard. It's every single software to make event-based alerts without generating tons of noise. Yeah, I think my short answer to your question, if I'm understanding it correctly, is basically the answer is yes. Like, software engineer teams, all engineering teams at James Street need to think really hard about all the ways in which their software can go wrong and raise alerts accordingly, and think about how the humans on the receiving end of the alert is going to respond to that alert. And yeah, I think it's a lot of work in a lot of ways, but it does mean that we have really reliable, robust alerting that we then feel really good about, and can allow us to paradoxically move really fast in other ways because we are so competent in our alerting that we know that we'll catch something something goes wrong. I think I saw him. Yeah. Thanks for taking the question. I'll stay anonymous for now. I have two questions. I think first one is perhaps relatively straightforward for your answer. And the second one, if you're not feeling comfortable to answer, I can. Okay, cool. So the first one is, I think, do you guys have some sort of common login standard, across different teams responsible for different components. So the reason I ask this is imagine you mentioned in your system, you have some sort of a risk of lurking risk monitoring, right? And they have a separate team that's presumably, this is responsible for generating the actual trade actions. And if something goes wrong, see the alert comes from the, from your lurking system. And if you try to look at the logs, so, personally, at the experience that, so for example, it goes into the closed auction and the monitoring system says, oh, my participation rate is too high. So alert goes on off. And then you get the devs try to investigate and they look at the order system and they have one set of logs and they try to check. like say, oh, what is the auction volume at the time? So they would search for the keywords, for example, what is the indicative auction volume and causing volume? Whereas then you try to cause reference, say, oh, why did the monetary system do that alert? And when you go to that logs, rather than say, the indicative and cost volume, they say IEV. So sometimes you actually need to be able to diagnose, you need almost like a subject expert knowledge to different systems purely because the devs decided to use different commations and there isn't a place to enforce the sort of commations. So does Gen Street have some sort of common standards? Yeah, I think the answer to that is like a little nuanced. Unfortunately, I think we have some common alerting libraries that most teams use. I find this question actually maybe this is the harder question. I know you said it's going to be the other way around, but I find this question hard to answer. Yeah, I think we have common alerting libraries. I think we have some common standards. I think it depends a lot on the set of alerts you're talking about. One thing that's true about James Street is we don't have a lot of top-down edicts. In fact, we have approximately zero top-down edicts. So the every generator of an alert is sort of free to do it in their own way. And I think that does mean that if I am on one team and then I move to another team, I need to understand that team's conventions for alerting. All those teams are hopefully using a relatively common set of tooling provided by our core services team. But they're free to use that tooling in their own way. So we're going to have the same log levels throughout the firm using the same logging library. But a specific convention around what terminology you use around a specific condition could vary team by team. That being said, a lot of the teams I'm talking about here, like market data, order engines, are building market data in order engines for all of our tasks. So if you're trying to debug something for the equities team that's connected to the market data, that's the same team that's the bonds market data team. A lot of our infrastructure is sort of shared across different trading strategies. So I think a lot of these like risk question alerts are going to be from a common framework that's going to apply to a bunch of different tasks. Does that answer that question kind of? Yeah. OK. That was the easy question. Great. Let's go. So the second one is, again, ties back to the monitor system that you mentioned, Ray. And I can imagine for Jin Capital, you properly as a firm has an overall at any point in time, a risk appetite or a risk capacity that you're taking. And then inside you have your individual desk or functions that's taking risk at any point, okay? And then you have some sort of trade events that's originated from your trading system or different trading components or trading desks. And then I'd imagine at some point you want to keep counter of your overall aggregate risk So when that comes through, how does Jane Street, do you guys act, have the system, I guess the overall monitoring. Does that act as the final gatekeeper and it's sort of like a blocker that you essentially pay for a computation time cost to process that then first and then as a single aggregation points, pay for the cost of the check before you decide to let it out the door. Or you do it some other asynchronous way, like yeah again I think the answer to that is a little complicated and maybe I'll go back to Some slide around here somewhere maybe Like this you kind of different kinds of alerting that we have I think in this talk I have mostly been thinking about like our technical health not our our, like, trading, like, sort of thoughtful trading risk. So I think the way we tend to do this is, when you're thinking about, like, those sort of overall firm risk that we're putting on, that tends to be in our, like, trading monitoring systems that traders are looking at, and making human time decisions about how much, like, firm risk we're willing to put on as a whole. And then we also have, like, I guess we made my answers, we do a mix of the two, where, For some amount of risk, there's like automated systems that will turn off if you're exceeding this risk. And then for other sort of more firm-wide risk things, we have humans looking at them and trying to make decisions based on what they think is safe over the course of days, weeks, months, whatever the case may be. Does that answer your question? The end time, I don't have much time. How many more questions? One more question. OK. Arbitrary, you in front. Thanks for sitting in front. Right. Thank you so much for the talk to now. So I come from a startup hedge fund. And it's pretty interesting to see all the sophisticated systems you have here. And the time period that you start 9.31, and you kind of resolve the issue by 9.45. I think it takes us like that time to figure out what went wrong really. So that's impressive. But there are two main aspects that I think about here is that first is the event-based alerting, right? So we do that sometimes, but sometimes what happens is when one thing blows up, 100 other things are going to blow up as well. And then you have thousands of alerts, like it just multiplies, right? So how do you deal with that? And the second question is you mentioned the order engine halts. Making that decision is as easy as just like, oh yeah, halted. But what if the next set of orders are way more important than the orders that have already been executed. And then you've been, you've received a resume. The orders that came in between, like, suppose a trader's was still like, oh, we wanna trade. Do you just put them in the market or market has changed by now? So, how do you deal with like these two things? I'll answer the second question or the second part first, because my memory's bad and it's the part that I remember. So, I guess as a sort of concrete technical matter, I think when the order engine is halted, it would reject the trading system's order. And so the trading system would have internal logic knowing that it would need to resend the order if it wanted that to get filled. That's sort of the concrete answer there. How am I so bad? So can you repeat all the questions? Yeah. Very quickly. So it's not like when you're allowed to multiply. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's one thing brain, I'm like, you're going to be interested. Yeah, I think we don't do great at that. It's like my honest answer. I feel like we have absolutely that same problem. If anyone's solved it, talk to me afterwards. Maybe we'll copy some stuff from you. I'm trying to come up with a better sounding answer, but I don't think we do great there. I think that happens here, too. Yeah, because if that happens, I think. Let's see, I don't feel like it often becomes a huge problem. And I'm trying to think of why that's the case. I guess it might be useful to think of a concrete example. In this example I gave, there wasn't no system. notice anything wrong with any system. The only alert that raised in this case was feel too good. As far as we were concerned, all the systems were healthy. And so we weren't raised a cascade of alerts, because as far as we're concerned, everything's going fine. In cases where there are, we know that there's a system problem, I think maybe the biggest problem is like many different systems will raise alerts that they're each down. But it tends to not be super problematic, because in fact, again, we do get a system Symptoms based alerting, so this system that's supposed to serve this users for this purpose is now down. That's a real valuable alert that lets us know to contact those users and let them know that they need to change the behavior somehow because the system isn't going to behave as expected, and so on for all the downstream systems. So I guess we don't tend to have that problem because of the symptoms based alerting that I'm talking about. And then I'm so bad with memory. Sorry, what was your second? No, I think that's all I wanted. OK, cool. Thank you all. And apparently, that's the last time for questions, but I'm happy to stick around and talk to anyone afterwards. Thanks.
