Timestamp: 2026-05-07T12:15:23.448683
Title: 华尔街财经  WS × AI Era - 谷歌CEO桑达尔·皮查伊 谷歌人工智能的历史与未来 太震撼！🐮 这个五一看到这视频收获太大了！👍  皮查伊说了一句话， 我反复看了三遍： ... 2050004898146582528
URL: https://x.com/WSInsights/status/2050009773282619518?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 1:09:36

Description:
---

### **PART 1. 作者论点地图 (Author's Map)**

**1. 核心主张 (Core Thesis)**
Google 并非在 AI 竞赛中落后，而是凭借其深厚的“全栈”积累（从自研 TPU 芯片、底层研究如 Transformers 到庞大的产品生态），正处于从研究向规模化产品转化的爆发期。其高昂的资本支出（约 1800 亿美元）和对延迟（速度）的极致追求，是其在 AI 时代保持统治地位的核心壁垒。

**2. 证据基础 (Evidentiary Base)**
*   **历史先例 (Historical Precedent):** Transformers 架构、TPU（2016年即开始研发）、Lambda（早于 ChatGPT 的内部模型）。
*   **硬数据 (Hard Data):** 2026 年预计 1750-1850 亿美元的资本支出 (CapEx)；过去 5 年搜索延迟降低了 30%。
*   **产品案例 (Anecdote/Case Study):** Waymo 的商业化进展（安全驾驶里程）；Gemini 在多模态上的原生设计。
*   **专家直觉 (Expert Intuition):** 摩尔定律在 AI 领域的延伸，以及对“代理化 (Agentic)”搜索未来的预判。

**3. 逻辑授权 (Logical Warrant)**
*   **垂直整合推理 (Vertical Integration):** 因为 Google 拥有芯片 (TPU) + 模型 (Gemini) + 平台 (Android/Search/YouTube)，这种垂直整合能产生比单纯做模型更高的投资回报率 (ROI) 和更低的延迟。
*   **非零和博弈 (Non-zero-sum Logic):** AI 的兴起不是在瓜分现有蛋糕，而是像互联网早期一样，通过提高生产力大幅扩张市场总量。

**4. 声明范围 (Stated Scope)**
*   **时间跨度:** 重点在于 2026-2027 年的竞争格局。
*   **限制性语言:** 承认在 LLM 的早期公众认知上“并非第一个发货”，且面临存储器 (Memory) 和电力 (Power) 的物理供应限制。

**5. 隐含对手 (Implicit Opponent)**
*   **市场看空者:** 那些认为“Google 搜索已死 (Search is cooked)”或认为 Google 陷入“创新者困境”无法应对 OpenAI 挑战的人。
*   **纯模型实验室:** 隐含对比那些没有自研芯片和庞大分发渠道的纯 AI 研发公司。

**6. 预期效果 (Intended Takeaway)**
*   让投资者相信 Google 的高额投入是有保障的。
*   重塑公众认知：Google 不是在追赶，而是在按照自己的节奏完成“全栈”拼图。

---

### **PART 2. 尖锐但极其公平的评论 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair REVIEW)**

**1. 强化版论点 (Steelman)**
Google 的真正优势不在于它是否第一个发布聊天机器人，而在于它是全球唯一一家能够自主控制从硅片（TPU）到数据中心、再到全球数十亿用户终端（安卓/搜索）完整链路的公司。这种规模效应意味着，一旦模型达到基准线，Google 能够以竞争对手无法企及的成本效益和速度进行大规模分发。

**2. 最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)**
> “由于搜索质量的偏见……我们可能有更高的标准，对于什么是可以发布的合格产品。”

**批判：** 这是一个典型的“创新者困境”修饰辞。Pichai 将“迟缓”归咎于“高质量标准”，但事实是 Lambda 的“毒性”在 OpenAI 引入 RLHF（人类反馈强化学习）后被证明是可以工程化解决的。Google 的延迟并非因为标准更高，而是因为害怕 AI 生成内容破坏其核心广告业务的盈利逻辑。如果这个“质量标准”本质上是“组织惰性”，那么 Google 的全栈优势只是在加速建造一座可能过时的堡垒。

**3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)**
*   **选择性遗忘:** 提到 Transformers 是 Google 发明的，却回避了为什么所有 8 位作者最终都离开了 Google 去创业。这暗示了 Google 的文化可能无法留住最顶尖的工程人才。
*   **Lambda 的幻觉:** 提到内部工程师认为 Lambda 有“意识”，以此证明模型领先，但这恰恰反映了 Google 当时对模型安全和产品方向的判断失误，而非技术领先。

**4. 隐藏前提 (Hidden Premises)**
*   **假设一：** 搜索的“代理化”依然能支撑现有的广告点击模型。如果 AI 直接给出了答案，用户不再点击链接，Google 的高额 CapEx 如何收回成本？
*   **假设二：** 算力投入与产出呈线性关系。Pichai 假设投入 1800 亿就能换取代际领先，但如果模型进步进入边际效用递减阶段，这种投入将变成巨大的财务黑洞。

**5. 盲点分析 (The Blind Side)**
*   **分发不等于留存:** Google 拥有巨大的分发渠道，但 AI 时代的忠诚度极低。如果 Perplexity 或 OpenAI 提供了更纯净的答案，用户会毫不犹豫地背离预装的搜索框。
*   **能源与监管:** Pichai 轻松地表示“电力问题是可解决的”，但忽略了数据中心扩建面临的日益严峻的环境监管和社区阻力。

**6. 致命一问 (One Hit Kill)**
“既然 Google 早在 2016 年就确立了 AI First 战略并拥有 Transformers 和 TPU，为什么在 2022 年底被一家只有几百人、没有芯片、没有分发渠道的初创公司（OpenAI）夺走了定义 AI 时代的话语权？”

**7. 判决标准 (What Would Settle It)**
到 2026 年，观察 Google 的广告利润率。如果 AI 搜索导致点击率下降且单位查询成本（Inference Cost）未能通过 TPU 降至传统搜索水平，则证明 Pichai 的“全栈优势论”未能对冲业务模式的崩塌。

---

### **PART 3. 逻辑架构图 (Mermaid Diagram)**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    %% 核心节点
    Pichai["<b>Sundar Pichai 的 AI 战略视图</b><br/>(2024-2026)"]:::mainNode

    subgraph SG_Strategy["🔵 核心战略：全栈垂直整合 (Full-Stack)"]
        direction TB
        S1["<b>自研芯片 (TPU)</b><br/>降低成本，解决算力约束"]
        S2["<b>原生多模态 (Gemini)</b><br/>从底层设计超越 LLM"]
        S3["<b>极致速度 (Latency)</b><br/>作为产品核心竞争力"]
        S4["<b>大规模资本支出</b><br/>$180B 构建物理护城河"]
    end

    subgraph SG_Product["🟢 进化路径：从搜索到代理 (Agentic)"]
        direction TB
        P1["<b>搜索进化</b><br/>从蓝链接到直接答案"]
        P2["<b>AI 代理</b><br/>完成端到端的复杂任务"]
        P3["<b>Other Bets 协同</b><br/>Waymo/量子计算/生物医药"]
    end

    subgraph SG_Defense["🟡 历史辩护：为什么我们'看似'晚了?"]
        direction TB
        D1["<b>发明者困境</b><br/>发明了 Transformer 但追求质量稳健"]
        D2["<b>非零和博弈观</b><br/>市场足够大，不急于一时爆发"]
        D3["<b>内部产品化</b><br/>Lambda 早已存在，受限于安全标准"]
    end

    subgraph SG_Review["🚩 批判性审视 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair)"]
        direction TB
        R1["<b>创新者困境</b><br/>高质量标准 = 官僚化决策迟缓?"]
        R2["<b>商业模式悖论</b><br/>AI 答案 vs 广告点击的内在冲突"]
        R3["<b>人才流失</b><br/>核心研究员离职背后的文化问题"]
        R4["<b>资本效率</b><br/>$180B 投入能否换取相应利润增长?"]
    end

    %% 逻辑连接
    Pichai --> SG_Strategy
    Pichai --> SG_Product
    Pichai --> SG_Defense
    
    SG_Strategy -- "支撑" --> SG_Product
    SG_Defense -- "解释" --> Pichai
    
    %% 批判指向
    D1 -.-> R1
    P1 -.-> R2
    S4 -.-> R4
    D1 -.-> R3

    %% 样式定义
    classDef mainNode fill:#FFFACD,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:3px,color:#333,font-weight:bold
    classDef strategyNode fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#1565C0,stroke-width:2px,color:#1A237E
    classDef productNode fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20
    classDef defenseNode fill:#FFF3E0,stroke:#E65100,stroke-width:2px,color:#4E342E
    classDef reviewNode fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#D32F2F,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#B71C1C

    class Pichai mainNode
    class S1,S2,S3,S4 strategyNode
    class P1,P2,P3 productNode
    class D1,D2,D3 defenseNode
    class R1,R2,R3,R4 reviewNode

    %% 背景样式
    style SG_Strategy fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#1565C0,stroke-dasharray: 5 5
    style SG_Product fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-dasharray: 5 5
    style SG_Defense fill:#FFF3E0,stroke:#E65100,stroke-dasharray: 5 5
    style SG_Review fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#D32F2F,stroke-width:2px
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
Sundar Pichai just passed a decade as CEO of Google. Also better to now, not only one of the world's biggest tech companies, but a leader in the AI race would plan to spend $175 billion in CapEx in 2026. Cheers! Cheers! Thanks for coming. Thanks for having me. A bit of history that people talk about a lot in the context of Google and AI, is the fact that transformers were invented at Google but then productized outside of Google with mostly chat GPT and kind of that style of product. How do you reflect on that now? I think it's actually worth talking about. It's a bit misunderstood. Transformers was done in the context of, lot of like, like TPUs, Transformers were all done to solve a specific product need to some extent, right? Like the team's thinking about how to make translation better in the case of TPUs. How do you, hey, speech rack works, would you suddenly have to serve it to 2 billion people? They don't have enough chips for it. It's like, how do you solve in France for it? So, I hadn't known that the transformers were specifically towards some of our research teams, but they were guided by solving problems. Yeah. And transformers were immediately used. So, bird and mom, people underestimate how much because we measured search quality so religiously, some of the biggest jumps and search quality in that period where search went ahead of everyone else was because of Bert and Ma. We built transformers and used it immediately in search to improve language understanding, understanding web pages, understanding your queries, kept building better models. We had also started productizing it internally in the form of there were teams building something called Lambda. So obviously we were in the first to ship that, but I think it's less to do with like, it was just research and we weren't applying it in a product direction. That, I think, is just... It's like, you did this research, you then saw massive ROI from using it the way you intended and then you didn't invent all of the products that were invented with us, but that's to be expected. I would go step further. We exactly even conceived the product which is like Chat GPD, it was Lambda. If you would remember, there was an engineer inside who thought it was sentient, right? So think of it as an early version of Chat GPD who was speaking to internally. So we even had the product version of it in the multiverse somewhere else, Google probably shipped that nine months later or something like that. Maybe the, in fact, in the Google IO in 22, we launched something called AI Test Kitchen and that was Lambda, but we had constrained it because internally we didn't have an end-to-end version which was Aurali-Cheft, right? So the version I saw was a lot more toxic at a level we couldn't have possibly put it out of that time. And also I think as a company, Chad, this search quality bias. And so, we had a higher bar maybe, right, for what we thought was an acceptable product quality to go out. But it wasn't like, we were figuring out how to get it out. I would also argue that even when opening, They did their deal with Microsoft probably a couple of months before. So, you can look back and say, it wasn't entirely fully obvious. I think they were lucky to also see it on the coding side with GitHub. I think maybe there was a signal we were missing. You know, coding side probably you were seeing more of a sequential jump than probably just on the language side. So maybe the jumps between GPD 2 and 3 and later 4 were more pronounced, you know, if you were using it for coding too. So, you know, you can point to things, but yeah, so, but I think to answer your original question, I think it was less that research to product than a bunch of other factors. Also, I remember talking to some of the people who worked on chat GPD, and I think they launched it the week of Thanksgiving. You know, it was a little of a varied launch. It wasn't like this is a big prominent thing, and this is going to be an important part of our future. It was a cool, sort of a task case, it was really interesting. But you know, the way I internalize these moments is if you're in consumer internet, you're going to have surprises. We even at Google then, I mean, there was something called Google Video Search, YouTube came out, right? Just that we acquired YouTube. Or think about if you were in Facebook, Instagram came out. Nobody sits and says like, you know, you don't look at those moments with that drama because Facebook just bought Instagram right and but the way I've internalized is consumer internet. People are able to train people are going to be sitting and prototyping and throwing out millions of things. I'm not trying to diminish anything but I'm just saying you're always going to have these moments you know I don't think people like wake up in a garage and ship a better iPhone like that's not happening right but that's not how how consumer internet is. So you just have to be conscious of that and internalize that. As I think about the AI race in 2026, one thing that strikes me is Google has for so long had speed as the place of tries to differentiate. And so original Google search was really fast and famously displayed the search query time within the results sort of showing off. And then Gmail fast search compared to the competitor of the time or Chrome compared to the competitor time. And now, I mean, I use all of the AI services for different things, but Gemini on TPUs is just so fast. And I'm curious how much this is part of the explicit product strategy and how you think of it or it's much more nuanced than that. I've always internalized speed. Let's call it as latency for this purpose, right? And as like one of the distinguishing features of a great product, And also almost always reflects the technical underpinnings of the product having been done well. There's a different speed, which matters too, which is the speed of shipping and iteration and release cycles. So both are important, but you know, you talk about latency, it's easy to say you want latency, but you're constantly adding capabilities, so the capability frontier is progressing. So there's some sense of how do you balance that? So that's where it gets more complicated. But to give an example, like search, you know, I was speaking with the teams, right? Like they now have for sub teams, like latency budgets, like in the milliseconds. You get 50% credit, so if you ship something which, you know, shaves off three milliseconds, you earn 1.5 milliseconds for your latency budget and 1.5 milliseconds gets passed onto the user, right? And depending on what we think you're doing, some people may get a latency budget of 30 milliseconds or 10 milliseconds. You can use it, but you have rigorous reviews against that. But that's how much we think it matters. So, and for context, I guess, humans pick it up in the low hundreds in all seconds. Is that correct in terms of where it actually impacts? That's right. Yeah, that's right. I think we've actually, you know, last I checked the hash forwards in the metrics, You've actually improved search latency by 30% in the last five years, but think about the functionality for aggression that's happened. This is why in Gemini, we deeply think about that period of frontier of making sure the capability to speed and the flash models are at like 90% the capability of the pro models, much faster, much more effective to serve, and the work equal integration helps, and so on. How do you think about the future of search, actually? Because a lot of people now are talking about chat as a new interface. Obviously, Gemini has incorporated searches and corporate Gemini or AI results in the context of Google. But a lot of people are now talking about agentec flows and everybody's gonna have a personal agent who instead of typing in a query, it'll go and do something for you. Instead of asking about trips, it'll go and plan a trip for you. What do you view as a future of search, is it a distribution mechanism, is it a future product, is it one of the anyways people are going to interact with the world? I feel like in search with every shift, you're able to do more with it, and we have to absorb those new capabilities and keep evolving the product frontier. If it's mobile, the product evolved pretty quickly, you're getting out of a New York subway, you're looking for web pages, you want to go somewhere, how do you find it, so you're constantly shifting the people's expectations shift and you're moving along. Yeah, if I fast forward, you know, a lot of what are just information seeking queries will be agent taking search, you'll be completing tasks, you have many threads running. Well, search exists in 10 years. Well, you know, you may or just evolve in the same time. It keeps evolves. You know, search would be an agent manager, right, in which you're doing a lot of things. I think in some ways I use anti-gravity today and a bunch of agents doing stuff and I can see search doing versions of those things and you're getting a bunch of stuff done. I think the root of your question is if you think of search as a prompt that is not longer than one line, returning a bunch of different ranked results as opposed to just telling the right answers. I think your question is, does that probably put us here in the chat? But today in AI mode and search, people do deep research queries, right? So that doesn't quite fit the definition of what you're saying, right? So but kind of people adapted to that. Yeah, right. So I think people will do long-running tasks. Yes, sure. It's kind of like that. We all started, or the, you know, life started as unicellular organisms. And now we have this complex life. And so the question is almost like, does that former version or I'm eventually going away and really what was search becomes an agent and your future interface is an agent in the The search box and in 10 years or n years is is no longer in the form factor of devices are going to change I always going to radically change And so, you know, so it's tough to and you can paralyze yourself thinking 10 years ahead But we have we'll fortunate to be in a moment where you can think a year ahead and the curve is so steep It's exciting to just do that year ahead, right, whereas in the past you may need to sit in like NVision five years out. Unlike you know, the models are going to be dramatically different in a year's time. And so I think writing the curve itself is exciting and so I think it'll evolve, but it's an expansionary moment. I think a lot of people underestimate in these moments is It feels so far from a zero-sum game to me, right? The value of what people are going to be able to do is also on some crazy curve, right? So, once you view it that way, people would ask all these questions, right? Like, my YouTube has done well since TikTok and Instagram, you know, so you can give many examples. I think the more you view it as a zero-sum game, it looks difficult. It can become a zero-sum game if you're innovating, or the product is not evolving, but as long as you are at the cutting edge of doing those things, and we're doing what's search in Gemini, and so they overlap in certain ways. They will profoundly diverge in certain ways, so I think it's good to have both and embrace it. When we talk about assertion where it's going and things like this, and we're reminded with the fact that basically a year ago, kind of spring, summer, 25, sentiment was very negative on Google. The prevailing view was that search is cooked, and we're going to have a really hard time. The core business model is under attack, blah, blah. Google was trading for $150 a share. And now people have realized that's silly. Google has up and down the stack, whether it be applications or models, or TPUs, or whatever, and turn that as well as Waymo and YouTube and all the full bets. What do you think investors as a proxy for kind of informed sentiment misunderstood this time last year? Because clearly there was some big misunderstanding. You know, it was obviously kind of a very inward focus in that moment. So, you know, to me, it was very clear in that moment Hey, the Overturn window shifted. We have, like I felt like the company was built for that moment in a vertical thing. It's not an accident or something. It was a very intentful thing. We were in the seventh version of TPUs. I remember it might have been 2016, Google I-O, where we announced the TPUs and spoke about we're building AI data centers. This was 2016. We were thinking about, you know, a company was operating in AI first way. So we had deeply internalized the shift. So to me, we were behind in terms of frontier LLM models, but we had all the capabilities internally and we had to execute to meet the moment. But we had the exciting part was, when I looked at it from full stack, we had the research teams, We had the infrastructure teams, we had all the platforms, and we had been investing intently in many businesses. And to me, it suddenly felt like wow, we have this one common technology which can accelerate all those businesses. Search to YouTube, to Cloud, to Waymo, all relies on progress. And so it was a very leveraged way to make progress. So I understood it, and to the earlier point of the discussion, I didn't view it as a zero-sum moment at all, right? And I felt like everything is going to scale up 10x, right? And there's going to be room for other people, right? And you go back, you know, Amazon has done well since Google came into the picture in Facebook. So we underestimate the growth scenario of how all these things work, right? So, but we had to execute better as a company. So that's what I meant by, I was more focused on that. Yeah. Was there something that demonstrated the outside world that, oh, they got this? Was it Gemini 3 that changed people's minds? Or like, I don't follow all the timelines, but again. I think the real model, probably where people saw it was maybe Gemini 2.5, and I'm getting to the frontier on multi-particularly our multi-modality. We made a bunch of, we made credit to the Google DeepMind teams, right? They, I think we paid a bit more of a fixed cost upfront, but we designed the Gemini models to be very multimodal from day one. And so there were, there were areas. I think, I think we started, the strength started showing, Nanobanana was an example of it, right? So you were able to see it all together. look, it's an amazingly dynamic frontier. I think there are two to three labs who are pushing each other pretty vigorously. Any given month, we feel like, oh great, we've done this well, oh shit, there's a couple things behind, but I think the picture will again be dynamic in a few months. So I think the frontier is intense as you would expect it to be. So that's how I think It's not interesting because when I talked to our researchers, not at Google or at the other labs, one of the things that they commonly bring up is that they feel like the difference between the, you know, two or three other labs and the Google team is that Google is not, they call it AGI Pilt. In other words, there's less of a belief in AGI being right around the corner and the acceleration through it and obviously the folks at Google were thinking deeply about that. A, do you think that's true and B, do you think that it all impacts some notion of what the future actually looks like in there for what people are building against. Look, I think you know we probably have scaled our capex from 30 billion to 100 and approximately 180 billion. It's like real money now. You don't do it if you don't think you know about the curve a certain way. I viewed it as largely semantics maybe because we are a larger company with a lot of products that touches so many people at so many levels. Maybe the language of how we talk about it might be different. I think the founders were AGI-pilled, probably I think this notion that at Google we even understood what AGI's or Demis and team, or Jeff Dean and team, I mean, at one point, I don't know, Demis, Jeff, Ilya, Daria, we're all there. So he can... I like that retort, it's like, hello. I think it's in the past 20 years, so that doesn't make sense to me, I think some confidence, if you're a younger company, you know, or you're more a pure research lab, you know, maybe headquartered in San Francisco, a lot of small attributes which can probably make a difference, but I don't think at a foundational level, there is a difference in outlook on what the curve is, right, or how we internalize the technology. Look, I think even within the company there's a set of us living on the bleeding edge, firing agents, seeing what these things can do, see the agents, pick up skills, do stuff, and also look back three months ago what they could do now, and we are living that exponential internally, right? I think you're both right, I agree, you can kind of point us at the history of Google. I think what a lot's getting at is like a feeling where I saw Tweet go by this saying what you have to realize to explain what's currently going on in the valley is that every tech executive has severe AI psychosis right now and they're spending a huge amount of time writing code and talk to AI and things like that. Now there's a funny take and not without any truth to it and I'm curious what were you feeling the AGI moments along the of the recent, or you know, to what extent do you have AI psychosis these days? My first feeling the AGI moment was 2012 when Jeff Dean demoed the earliest version of Google Brain. This is the Neural Networks Recognized a Cat, right? So that was 2012, I went with Larry to the DARPA Challenge. It might have been 2014. I think I need to be exact about when we went there. seeing the cars drive there. Demis demoing the earliest versions of the models having what we would call as imagination. So there were many moments like that, so it was obvious that technology is progressing. In terms of living now and kind of having a visceral feel for it, I think the closest I would say is if you're coding and you give it a complex task and you never open the ID and you're in some agent manage a world and you see it kind of do it, you know, and how powerful it is. So, you know, you can, you know, call it V-Lay GI. So there are moments like that, yeah. Yes, yes. And a little hobby project recently and after a while, I was like, oh, I wonder what language it's using. But that was like a detail that I needed to ask it about after everything was up and running. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It was like magic, yeah. Yeah. So, yeah, moments like that for sure, but the slope of the curve is what surprises you, right? And you're improving it on so many paradigms, it feels clear that there's going to be progress ahead, right? So when you talk about the visceral feel, I feel like one thing that's important to tech companies and every CEO thinks about this differently is how you stay connected to the product experience and everyday users, because tech products are so abstract that it's easy to, you know, you cannot just manage through reports from teens and slide decks and spreadsheets. And so, you know, Tony Shoe was talking about how he still works as a door dasher, you know, to stay very connected to that experience. We do at our, like, little weekly all hands we were occurring segment of just walk the store, where we, like, click around in the dashboard together and we're tripping over, like, why is that model there? And that's a bit confusing or whatever, just so we're collectively using the product. I'm curious how it works for you and how at Google, you ensure that you're staying connected to the experience of using the products. Other than you use Gmail and everything every day. No, you know, dog footing, like literally internal versions. I do block time to kind of use it intensely, so like kind of focus time to do it. And so that helps, like, even just two weeks ago, I was stretching in the gym and I had the phone with Gem and I live. And so I'm like, I want to talk to it for like the entire 30 minutes on like one topic. So you do those things. And it's some of it works, some of it is frustrating. We kind of learn a lot, right? Like, so I force myself to use it in those power user mode ways and stay in touch that way. X helps, because sometimes you get the raw feedback. Thank you for fixing the Google counter thing. That was so good. Well, the few more we have the fix, but thanks for flagging it. So yeah, X helps, because you kind of get the raw comments and I try to follow it directly. But I'll tell you what, what a self internally, like I would go fire to our earlier part, like I would query in anti-gravity, just our internal version of anti-gravity. Hey, we launched this thing. Like, what did people think about this? Tell me that like the worst five things people are talking about, the best five things people are talking about. And I typed that. Now that brings it back. So has my life gotten easier? Yes. So in the past, I would have to spend a lot more time trying to get a sense for it. Now an AI agent is helping me in that journey. So you can get, you know, well, how much should I be spending first hand to get that feel, this is actually leveraging these tools. So even I'm going through a journey date, right? So I'm trying to adapt to this future. I guess there's, you mentioned A, that it's not zero sum, B, there's all these productivity gains before seeing. And if you look at a lot of prior technology cycles, it took a while for the internet or for mobile or for SaaS to show up in actual GDP numbers, right? In the context of AI, we're seeing it from a data center build up perspective where that's driving part of GDP growth. How do you think ahead in terms of three, four, five years? do you think the US economy is bigger because of AI? And if so, how much bigger? Well, for these returns to make sense, somewhere it has to, you know, how long was it before? I think it was maybe from Sequoia, someone wrote and saying, people are investing this much. Yeah, they're comparing the catbacks to the, yeah. Yeah, I'm just wondering if it's two and a half years ago and it was a talk and like thing, it doesn't make sense because you would need to return at that level. You probably tend next thing since that moment. I need to go look at the numbers again, right? So at some point, it has to reconcile. To be very clear, we are supply constrained. We are seeing the demand across all the surface areas. I actually don't have any doubt that this is a massive market in outcome. So my question, and I think there's a lot of things that people must underestimate. So for example, people often talk about software engineering and then what proportion of that is token versus salary. And to some extent, I think that market has been so demand constrained for great software engineers that suddenly adding supply can 10x that market, right? In other words, I think the market for software engineering and coding is dramatically bigger than A&B things. And it's the wrong metric to say, but token budget versus engineers. So I actually think it should grow a lot of things. I was just curious of your view of how much growth do we think is likely actually to come of this? I actually wasn't doubting at all sort of catbacks versus outcomes, or I see, yeah. look at me going back to the internet and looking at GDP growth, it doesn't quite capture what we all feel with the internet. And so maybe you would have had negative GDP growth without the internet surplus. So it's tough to look ahead. I do think there are natural dampening mechanisms in society at various levels. And the obvious ones being, the compute build out is a different curve than the rate at which we can improve the models. So you're already dealing with a more constrained curve there. Then how do you diffuse it into society? We are doing this with Weymau. And you can make Weymau safer than human drivers, but you have to be careful at the pace at which we are rolling out, etc. So sometimes, how do you diffuse it through society responsibly? There are constraints in all these layers, right? So, but I think that it was economy so much larger than it was 10 years ago. So to grow that, even at a half a percentage point higher than that's a massive contribution. So I expected to play out that way. Listening to Sundar is a powerful reminder of what it means to operate a true internet scale. When it comes to commerce though, most businesses are forced to make critical decisions and evacuate. They view the internet economy through only their own lens, using only the data that exists within their four walls. This is where Stripe comes in. Because we process $1.9 trillion a year in global payments, we have a panoramic view. When you build on Stripe, you're plugging in to that network intelligence, from verifying a user identity, to stopping fraud before it starts, to streamlining how businesses connect and knowing what payment methods work best locally, we've built a system that puts 1.6% of global GDP to work, to protect and grow your revenue. So if you want to use a part of Stripes Network Intelligence, come see what you can build here. You referenced the supply constraint. And I think that's a really interesting defining aspect of 206, basically, where you said 150 billioning capex, 180. We have said it will be between 175 and 185. OK, so 180-ish billion of capex. And what's interesting to me is that Google could not spend $400 billion in CapEx if it wanted to, because the memory isn't there, and the power isn't there, and all these components. So if you just take through, you can find a number of auditions we would need. Exactly. So I'd love to hear just your overview of the various bottlenecks. Look at some level you have to work back to actual wafer capacity or something like that, so there are deeper ground troops, right? I think so wafer starts. It's kind of a fundamental constraint. I think power and energy are more solvable, permitting, and actually working through a regulatory environment might be a constraint, right? So the pace at which you can do things. Even though there's lots of land and progress, Texas or Nevada or Montana, just maybe not enough. I think we're making tremendous progress. I think for the US, I think it's a particularly important thing You're an all of like the pace in China, how fast they can build things. So I really think we need to learn to build things much faster. We almost have to shift your mentality to think about what would it take to do things 10x faster in the physical world, construct 10x faster. But I would worry about that as a constraint. I think that could be growing resistance. So it's not as simple as a few people deciding if you want to build faster. The data center motorians, yeah. So I would say wafer starts the ability to permit and do things. And I do think there's a lot of good work being done from the government on. I think people realize you need to do these things better. Then comes critical competence in the supply chain. Memory is a good one. We are constraining those things in the short term. Everyone will respond to it. Yes. But I think all of us running companies, regardless of how agi pill you are, then comes this error bands of how bullish can you be, what's the margins you can offer, because there are extraneous factors which can go wrong in the world, which are outside of your control. So everyone is making those adjustments, those are all constraints, right, and constraints. So I think, but that's where I see the constraints. Do you memory the biggest components that you think about? Memory is definitely one of the most critical components now. Yes. And you said in the short term, do you think just people around pop supply and so type prices will take care of us? There is no way that the leading memory companies are going to dramatically improve their capacity. So you have those constraints in the short term, but they get more relaxed as you go out. What I do expect all of this to constraint, by the way, I think it'll push a lot of innovations on we will make these things 30x more efficient, like so all that is happening simultaneously as well. Does that enforce our oligopoly market? So if you actually look on the model side, because if you look at a lot of the views of models and how they're going to improve, a lot of it is going to be both self-improvement, so the models will start writing more and more pieces of themselves, do more data labeling for themselves, et cetera. So there's a musical chairs game of who has computer right now, basically? Exactly, who has computer right now and how much can you actually scale relative to overall industry capacity? And if everybody is roughly parrata up to some number, you've effectively put a ceiling on how much far ahead somebody can pull versus everybody else. Do you think that's a correct statement or an incorrect statement? I think it's a reasonable framework to think about it that way. But there are things which are coming in as we just ship Jema 4. Right, and it's a really good open source model. I mean, the Chinese models are very good, you know, but I think outside of China, you know, it's a very good open source model. You know, the frontier to Gemma 4 is both huge and not so huge in terms of time, like of Gemma 4 is based on Gemma 3 or architecture. Right, you know, it's a very weird thing, right? You're talking about a set of waves, which can fit on a USB stick. So it's like a really crazy, it's not like a SpaceX rocket. I'm always shocked that you run a data center for months and months and months and then your output is a flat file. Literally, it's like having a word doc or something and that's your model. It's amazing. So there are these unique attributes about this which makes me challenge those frameworks and say, how should we think about this? But I think it's a reasonable, at least on the inference side, what you're saying is a very reasonable way to think about it. Think about it, but I do think everyone is trying to figure out how to blow through the capitalist incentive to break through these constraints. It's immense. But as you say, there's only so much memory in the world, so no capitalist incentive will really solve 26 or 27 memories by. maybe the error where you see more divergent amounts. And remember, that has to balance with the way for capacity increasing, you being able to permit those data centers. So this comes from maybe less severe than it appears. So you have to kind of envision the total square set of like all the things that you need. And then think it through, right? Are you doing capital? Yes, yes. But again, what's interesting to me is that plausibly, people would invest beyond the current capex, but we're now just running against 26 and 27 real-world constraints. So about the straight-of-form use, you can have whatever price of oil you want. Ultimately, if you take 20 million barrels a day out of the system, you need to destroy 20 million barrels a day of demand, and that's kind of similar. Remember, you heard, like, ultimately, some people have to knock at the moment they want. But there are other constraints, right? Which, you know, take security as a constraint. these models are definitely like really going to break pretty much all software out there. Maybe already we don't know. We sit here and speak. Do you really? All software there, because like SSH, people have been trying to break for a long time. Do you think I'm talking about just things just like software, large platforms, how many zero days. You know, so there are constraints here in the system, you just can't wish away. Somebody was telling me the black market price of zero days is dropping because the supply is growing due to AI, which I thought was a really interesting, which I get metric, not at all surprised. And not at all surprised. But, how does it practically diffuse through society? What are the implications of it? And so there are parallels, I think. So I think there could be hidden constraints and there could be shocks to the system if you will. but having said that, I genuinely think there's a lot of upside ahead. Some of the constraints, maybe are helpful. Yes. Right, I think constraint inspires creativity. For the compaction cycle, or are we getting more efficient? Of course, maybe important conversations to be had, which otherwise wouldn't happen. Right, I think just on my security point alone, like we are going to need more coordination, which is not happening today. There will be a moment of, you know, it could be a sharp moment, right, and like, you know. And so all those things, I don't think you can wish them away. Yes, yes. Right, yeah. Actually, related to that, Google does have an amazing portfolio of things as both belt and bought into it. From an ownership perspective, you know, your own a reasonable amount of SpaceX, I think I don't know the exact amount, but I think it was 10% way back when I'm anthropic, 10% the majority of Waymo, which is like an amazing thing. And then internally, obviously, there's this enormous swath of amazing technology that's been developed, we talked about AI and transformers. There's TPUs. Obviously Waymo was another one of these things, there's quantum, you know, you just released a very interesting result there. Are there other hidden gems that people should know about or especially interesting, or that may have very big impact in the future? Or people may be aware of the rest of may. So yeah. Look, we're constantly trying to take these long-term projects which when you first announce them slightly marginally, looks ridiculous, you know, like we're in the earliest stages of thinking about data centers in space, right? But your earlier discussion around constraint inspires creativity. But if you take a 20 year outlook, right? Where are you going to put most of these data centers? Really hard problems to solve. But those are examples of products we think about today, which are way more in 2010. Quantum itself is one of these projects. We are in a deeply committed way making progress there. And I'm excited about it. Where do you think quantum will have the biggest impact? Because mainly people talk about molecular modeling, they talk about cryptography. There's quantum proof sort of cryptography that people have been developing over time. And the molecular modeling side that actually looks like the deep learning models tend to be very good at that in certain circumstances. I mean, you all pioneered that with alpha-fold. Do you think quantum will actually matter? And if so, where do you think it'll have the biggest impact? Look at abstract level to me. It feels like to simulate nature more and more, like given it's inherently quantum, you would need quantum systems to better simulate it. We may get there with classical computing techniques in a surprising way, or get at it with enough compression and abstraction at me work. But I fundamentally felt like quantum would have an edge there. And I don't know. We still don't understand the Hebrew process for many complex, I mean, it's probably your background going back to what you did in college. more, so my instinct tells me there'll be, you know, simulating weather, simulating, you know, reality, all that, I think quantum 11 advantage. I think the way history of technology is you get something to a scale where it works, and then you use it, and people's creativity on the top points to applications. So, you know, I mean, I always give this example of mobile phones plus GPS enabled Uber, like like, there's nobody who was working on phones who would predict that as an outcome of this platform shift. So, you know, confident quantum will have many, many, many applications if you can actually make it work. Yeah, so that's how I think about it. What's our windtrap view? You're talking about kind of your favorite of the Google further field. I think we're making, you know, the GM team is deeply thinking through robotics, right? And in robotics was an area where we were two early as a company before. It turned out AI was the missing ingredient for a lot of ideas, maybe 15 years ago or 10 years ago. But you know, the Gemini robotics models are sort of on spatial reasoning, et cetera. So we definitely have state of the art models there. we are partnering back in an ironic way with Boston Dynamics and Agile and a few of the companies and in a determined way making progress. And there are extraordinary startups out there as well, but so we are investing in, you know, spoke about quantum, data centers in space, drone delivery with Weng, you know, I I think we are scaling up being where in some reasonable time period, like 40 million Americans will have access to having delivery service, right? And I'm not talking years out or something like that. But again, these are all like methodical compounding when you take these long-term projects. So, you know, we are committed. Isomorphic. Yeah, isomorphic is very exciting, I think about being focused on these models in a targeted way, improving all the possible steps in drug discovery. And even though you have long pulls like phase three trials, et cetera, getting there with the much higher probability of success. Yeah, I think it's definitely the smartest approach I've seen in terms of the different biomodels and really thinking about the broader swath beyond just the molecular design, which is I think we're most of them are stock and so it seems very smart. Can I ask I'm curious how capital allocation actually works at Google? What I mean by that is the idea, good capital allocation is about internalizing the opportunity cost for capital and putting the cash that the business generates towards the highest invest use. And in the toy example in a business school book, you know, maybe you're Boeing. And we can either, you know, we have this cash that our business generates and we can either go bid on the next defense contract and we'll invest this much in our indeed dollars and we model this much revenue from the contract. Or we go develop a clean sheet commercial airliner and we'll put in this money and we model this kind of thing. It's like a 16% IRR versus a 19% IRR. Okay, I prefer the 19%. In Google's case, the projects are extremely heterogeneous where it's like, okay, we can give the YouTube team more funding so they can go, you know, improve the recommender algorithm, and therefore 10 months' size increases and so does monetization. Or we can give the Waymo team more funding so that they can actually get to market faster, a scale up faster. Or we can invest in this new AI approach that might, you know, pay off in five years' time. And so I'm curious if you are trying to put capital towards the highest invest use and you're ultimately comparing, How do you compare initiatives that are so different in nature and so different in payoff curves? That's the most John question ever. I need to know how to turn it around. But I see, and then I'll turn it around. It's a good question. Look, I feel it today more than ever, ironically, because of TPU allocation. So in some ways, I feel even way more needs TPUs, right? And so computers made the question, ironically, much more front of mine. By the way, of all the things I do, I'm really looking forward to how AI, as a companion, at least gives inputs to this task. And I think once we can actually get all the data connected and flowing through, even models are already capable of getting all the data unlocked, I think will be helpful. So I feel it there. Historically, I think at Google, one of the advantages we've had is sometimes we make these decisions very early in the cycle. So it's almost like going back to that roots is a deep technology orientation. And we actually think about the question you were asking a lot a bit ago about what are those longer term things. And so I think thinking at that stage, it's easier because your initial funding amounts can be smaller. But then you stay committed for the long term, but you're making sure you're making progress in a deep way. So as long as you're seeing that underlying technology, like take quantum, for example. How do we judge it? Like, we're judging the underlying, like, you know, see, you have goals around, you know, what logical, error-corrected, large-stable, logical-cube threshold by when you're gonna get to, and is the team able to do that? Right, so I think you're assisted that way. So one of the, I wouldn't say advantage, I think one of the ways we have thought about it, and we've been disciplined about, at least to me, matters a lot is to make those early technology bets in kind of a deep way. And so that's helped, but on a constant basis, look, I always view it as, you have to assist the long-term value of these things, right? So it's almost like in some intuitive way, you're thinking about the option value and the time of something five to ten years down the line. And you assume like a crazy growth, right? And I think through whether those decisions make sense. So the TPU investments have been great that way, right? And we've steadily invested in that. Waymo was a great example where I think we increased our investment two to three years ago when the rest of the world got the semesthetic on it. But now that some of the people are backing off, it's a magical experience. I take Waymo now everyday to work, and it's a good example of this question I have, which is Google does cut projects. And there's various things you've tried where you said, we're actually not going to fund this part of X all the way or we're not going to retire this product. It's not working. But Waymo, despite the fact that it was a long road from a compelling demo to commercial service in market, you guys didn't lose the faith. And so what was it that you were seeing? Is that a qualitative decision or a quantitative decision? How do you decide that we're going to cut Lune, but keep Wemma? I think it's to do with that some kind of quantified, you look at the way more driver, that's underlying technology which, you know, how does the software drive the car? And the progress in terms of safety and reliability, so it's a long-running task, how safe and how will you do it? And you follow that curve, and you predict, or you set goals where you want to be and how you perform against those curves. I think the team has been phenomenal. There have been maybe faces where it didn't progress, but those are the times you need to kind of like, you know, you have confidence in the quality of the team, to break through those faces. But I think the more you're able to evaluate things at that deeper technology level, I think you tend to make those decisions better, or at least that's how I have tried to do it. One argument I've heard, or one discussion I've heard made about Waymo is that a lot of the huge gains that have been seen recently, because it used to be this hand-mapped heuristics of like, how do you deal with edge cases of driving or something happens, how do you respond? And a subset of those were almost like hand-drawn out for the cars to follow. And so I kind of a narrow set of things that it could do. And then really the breakthrough was moving to end-to-end deep learning a couple years ago as this big transformer wave was happening in general. Do you think if Waymo had been started five years ago, it'd be at the same place as it is relative having been started 15 plus years ago, just given that that's the breakthrough that's kind of propelled it forward. Okay, I think, you know, we spoke earlier about robotics. I think about Waymo's a robot, right? I think people who are starting robotics in the last three years by definition would be making faster progress, maybe. But I think Waymo was such an integrated system that aspects of it, not quite like, you know, like you take something complex, like DSMC or SpaceX launching things. you are talking about system integration in these things in a very complex way. I think Waymo has hidden aspects of that, which the time of how you do it, the craft of it matters. But having said that, I do think the end-to-end approaches are going to be an excellent in these areas. Because just having a team arguably was a huge benefit to alphabet in Google, right? I mean, just the fact that you kept investing in it and then a hidden moment in time where this technology liftoff was more than worth it. and it was very smart and forward-thinking. I just think it's interesting to ask how does that apply to other domains because to your point on robotics, it seems like with robotics we'll potentially have a different history where you can move very quickly now. Do you folks think about re-internalizing hardware again, or is it largely gonna be a partner-driven model to bringing this stuff to the world? I think we'd keep a very open mind. My lesson from VAMO and on the AIS side with TPUs, et cetera, I think to really push the curve well, particularly in areas where you have safety, regulatory, everything. You want the first-hand experience of the product feedback cycle. So I think having first-party hardware will end up being very important. That's how I would say right at the stage. That sounds. So I have two more capital allocation questions. Can you make the case that Google has historically been under leveraged, where Google has historically carried a strong net cash position. And given that both, Google has more ideas than it knows what to do with, like it's just brimming with good ideas. And just the core business grows very durably, and I think Google clearly has a very good understanding of that core business, and it has grown at a higher rate than Google's cost of capital. As you look back at this, should Google have been more leaned in and said, okay, we We will be willing to have a leverage position that's slightly more aggressive than strongly in a cache, and we will put that towards new initiatives, or just buy more of this core Google business for Google Shareholders, or do more minority investing, which again Google seems to have been besting class ass. It's a great question. For example, if Waymo had reached this point earlier, I think I would have invested the capital earlier, to some extent, I think you were judging it by, he wanted to be goods tours of capital. So the exchange, the abolish on ROIC, we want to invest every last dollar you can there. But to the extent, you know, you have access to that, you don't think. I mean, that's why we've invested in other companies too. Even if not, then we've always thought about it with the lens of being goods tours of it. We felt our investment and Stripe was being a good steward of our capital, space X, you know, space X, and anthropic and so on. So I think now with the AI shift, there are more opportunities on which we can deploy capital in a good way, and so we are doing that. But I think we always had that mindset, but I would have been glad to invest more capital in way more earlier, but we were into the level of maturity needed to do that. There was a point in VMO from a safety standpoint, you know, we did approach VMO safety first. And it just, it wasn't the right thing to do. Things feel like you cannot point the projects where they would have gone faster, had they gone more capital sooner, they just needed a natural ramp. I wouldn't say that. But I think in generally at least we might have gotten the decision wrong, but approach at least was like to say, if we got excited about something and had the conviction that you were willing to come in the capital to see through. The another couple of allocation questions was, historically, at Tech companies, the large majority of the R&D expense was the people walking around the building. And, you know, headcount was managed through a very tightly controlled process, and indeed, as you thought about kind of allocating R&D efforts, it was really allocating kind of highly paid people to go work on the challenge. And the tech costs were, unless you were doing something very computationally expensive, which obviously Google did in place, you know, Google Books or something, but broadly speaking, the tech was an afterthought compared to the cost of the people. We're now going to a world for, as you say, that's not the case with, you know, TPUs and how you allocate that. Just at a very concrete budgeting level, how does that work inside out of Google. Like, are you, do you have an overall TPU budget for the company and then when you are giving a project resourcing, previously you gave us a certain headcount budget and now you give it a headcount and a TPU budget or the same budget. Just how does that work when you're doing a quarterly review or an annual review? Look, we've always had a compute budget. Asked me for a friend. Asked me for a friend. Now, we've always had a compute budget, right? You know, even classic I would say with ML, we use both TPUs and GPUs, by the way, extensively. But ML Compute Planning is, we have super thoughtful about headcount planning too, but we've always said to plan that, and ML Compute, we've gone through faces where they've been easy, and then there have been faces where we've been constrained as a company. But now it is really acutely constrained, right? So you spend a lot more time. I at least spend a dedicated hour of week thinking about the question at a pretty granular level. So I will know by projects and by teams, the compute units they are using, right? And you know, or at least I have that information and I'm looking at it and assessing it. And in some ways, it's a really important thing to be doing right now, I feel. So the scarce resource is confused in a lot of cases. And so you're ensuring that Google's precious compute resources are being spent on the most worthwhile conditions. Yeah. How do you think about that in the context of GCP and Google Cloud? Because there, you're actually allocating the compute to others instead of for your own purposes and given the constraints in the system. How do you think through that differential allocation? Look, Amy, plan ahead, right? So when we do the forward planning, the cloud team is forward planning and they're putting a plan in place. And so you're funding that and you're doing that for our internal needs. You forward plan. And as part of that, you're also saying long-term commitments to customers. Anything we come into a customer is sacrosanct, right? So these are contractual commitments. So you solve a lot of it with planning. And so there are, when you plan, we're all in a constrained world. So I think the cloud team would say they don't have the compute they want, et cetera, et cetera. But you solve it with planning ahead. Speaking of Google Cloud, I have my product request that I've been saving up for this section that I know you're looking forward to. You're going to post it in the next video. Exactly, yeah, yeah. We're taking care of it. But no, I'll say, one thing that works really well is the GCP, MCP, is awesome. Where your AI can just interact programmatically with Google Cloud. And I guess you guys have exposed almost everything except the core permissioning stuff. And I feel like in a way part of the curse of Google Cloud has been there is so much functionality there that I'm sure you occasionally hear from people that it was like a little hard to navigate that you'd log in, you have to create an organization, a project, whatever, and find the right services, whatever. And now all that doesn't matter. And so you just say, hey, go add this Google Cloud Functionality. And so that is something that actually it feels like Google Cloud is really bouncing from like the, it is so broad and there's so much functionality there. I mean, we have a little bit of this problem with Stripe where as we add more functionality to it, just the right way to navigate this big product surface area is an AI that's read all the API docs for you. So that's working really well. I mean, the promise of AI being this orchestration layer like for anything you think about to my earlier question, even internally with an enterprise as a CEO. It's not like you don't have all the data, but how do you get it in one place? And you see it in the past that would have meant one more big ERP-ish project to go kind of call the data sources, et cetera. Again, AI being the orchestration layer in a way that makes sense for the end user, I think it's been delightful to see. And the bigger the product surface area, the more that benefits hits you. And again, we've seen that to some extent with Stripe, I feel like with GCP, it must be just a massive effect. I think we could do a lot better. So, but you're right, it's a immense opportunity, I thank you. I've been really happy with it. Okay, and then that gets to my products judge. Did you bring product suggestions for us? Yeah, you go first, yeah. I wanted to, but... What's interesting, you're kind of open-clawed, the product market fit of things like that, is they're allowing stateful AI for consumers. And if you wanted to say, you know, the classic, you know, round up the daily news that I'm interested in and send it to me each morning, Or just something that involves persistence that none of the popular, you know, or like mainstream AI apps allow persistence. Is that common? I think that actually, look, I think you want to give users capability where you have persistent, long-running tasks in a reliable, secure way, you know, you have to think through things like identity, access, and so on, etc. But I think that's the future, that's the agentic future. And bringing that for consumers is like a bit of an exciting frontier we are looking at. Yeah, this is one of my tips. This is Dreamer, which was the former CTO of Stripes company that just got back in Bob Agnetta. I think they did a very good version of this. It was a very early kind of view of yeah, they were making custom software, including persistence, but also, you know, you could kind of speck out. Kind of make a real little app, exactly, yeah. and they made that very easy to use. But I feel like when people have this experience, there's a surprise in Delight Filment and it's just interesting to me this. Look, I think effectively the consumer interfaces are going to have full coding models underneath, right? And the right harnesses and the right skills and the ability to persist and run somewhere securely in the cloud, locally and in the cloud. So all those primitives are coming together. And so what developers are like today, I feel like there's 1% of the world, maybe 1% or 1%, 0.1% of the world who's kind of living this future, right? They are building stuff for themselves, but bringing that to mass adoption is a very exciting frontier, I think. OK, my other product suggestion is, sorry, you have to enjoy this part of the interview. It's a lot of fascinating. Exactly. My other product idea is, for some reason And I don't know if this is your lived experience, but certainly my lived experience. That search in Google Docs is so much harder than, say, search in Gmail. And obviously, they're both equally good search engines. But I think what's going on is keyword search works reasonably well for email, because you can probably remember a unique set of keywords for that email, where it's what always happens at least to me is like, I want to go back and look at the 26 budgets. It turns out if I search Google Slides for 2026 budgets, Neither of those words is particularly unique in the context of words that exist in PowerPoints Stripe, and so I can never find the exact right one. And I'm curious, does Sundar Pichai also have this problem? Yeah. Somehow I haven't felt it as acutely as you're describing it, but when you describe it, it resonates well with my experience. I'm literally playing through the person to whom I'm going to play this segment of the conversation. I know exactly who I'm going to go talk to. people are working on it, I think we can make it a lot better. I think the AI integration into these services, including Google Docs, I think you will see sharp improvements in the coming months ahead. I think we all did the first versions of it where you just put it in somewhere. But I think, over time, what all can you keep in context? What can you cache? And what can you really bring to bear? I think we can make a lot of progress on. So I think we can do a lot better. OK. Great. We have a good action to put together. a lot of companies that I'm involved with, even ones that were started recently recently have dramatically shift their workflows relative to product development, engineering practices, who they've been thinking of it should be on the design team and the capabilities of that. Are you revisiting all that at Google? Are you rethinking it? Is there been big shifts in workflow or other aspects? The way I would say it is, I can think of it as constant circles. There are some groups that's in Google who are shifting more profoundly. And so for me, a big task is how do you diffuse that the more and more groups, particularly in 2026? Some of it we couldn't do it early because it breaks so often that like, you know, you're almost like you see this promising new world, but it's kind of semi-broken. But this year, I feel like the curve is shifting pretty dramatically. So I can see groups, particularly I would say GDM and some of the sweet groups really change their workflows, And you know, they are using, we call this for some strange reason, we have a different name internally than externally of the same product, but it's jet-skiing internally, which is anti-gravity. And you're living on it, you're living in an agent-manager world, your workflows, and you're kind of working in this new way. Right. But just last week, we kind of rolled it out to the search team. Right. So we're constantly pushing that. You know, in a large organization, I think change management is a hard aspect of this technology diffusing, which may be easy for a small company, right? You know, you can quickly switch over. Can I lay out a few problems I see when it comes to actual diffusion of AI in industry, and I'm curious how and when you think we'll solve them, because I see it, we have a big intelligence overhang. The AI is now amazing in terms of what they can do in the abstract, and if you look at how AI-native company is, or just how much it uses that intelligence, they'll probably be a shortfall. The problems that I see are something like one, it actually takes a while to get good as an engineer as prompting your AI well, and you can can prompt an AI better or worse to write code. Then there's a lot of, say, Stripe-specific prompting in our case to know which tools to use, and so this kind of the general being good at prompting, and then there's the Stripe being good at prompting. And then, of course, you have the fact that it's hard to share an AI-generated code base because you have a blast radius, and you're just changing so much in the turnover of the code to tie enough, or maybe you're writing it several times before you ship, that it's kind of hard for many people to collaborate on the code base versus before, and the code velocity was slower. And then as you go outside of engineering, the big one I see is access to data, where you'd like to have your agent go, how many times a day do people at companies around the world say, hey, what's the status of this deal? And that is like information that the company knows and should be agentically answerable. And we actually have some cool stuff at Striper, I was seeing where you can actually answer that pretty well. But with both habits and access to data, and you know, as you get into a bigger company, the permissions engine of who can actually get access to this data, that all needs to be written. And then you get into role definition, where kind of like you were saying, NGPM design kind of stems a little bit from a priori, and you may want to at least in some cases merge those roles a little bit, as AI gets better as all those, as you've got a product to her. Anyway, that's kind of my characterization of in 2026, the models are capable of this, but we're only doing, we're only using them so much. What do you think that adoption of the intelligence looks like? Look, a lot of us are working on like, you know, literally what the Gemini teams, the Gemini Enterprise teams and the anti-gravity teams, they're precisely working on these problems. This is the roadmap you're talking about, right? Like, you know, and that's literally we are using it internally, running into these barriers, kind of working faster. So that's the products that are shipping. We are still diffusing it because what you do is people as part of using it, like if you're a sorry team at Google, you suddenly find portions which can create an automated workflow. And so that's happening in like these spots, right? But doing it more systematically, when you develop skills, how does it get centralized? how is it available to the models and for everyone to use? Identity access controls are like real hard problems and so we are working through those things, but those are the key things which are limiting diffusion to us too, right? And we take security a lot more seriously, and so we have to, right? So that is another layer on top of all these things, the cost of mistakes when you're running these services and so we have to work through it. But I think because of it when we solve it, I think we will bring it in a more robust way, which will help. So I feel like we are going through that fixed cost right now, but you will see this jumps of what people are able to do when we bring it out. So even other others are doing it too. And in a more robust way, the models are improving. Google reforcasts its business a few times a year, formally, I presume. At least we do at Stripe, or we set a budget for the year, and then three times a year, we produce a formal reforcast. And when you think about it, a reforcast is a moment in time function, when you take the state of the business, some of which is in people's heads, but most of which is written down everywhere. It's like, how is this product doing? How is that product doing? Will this deal close? Will that happen or whatever? So there's like the moment in time, state the business, we put it into a function and out comes the updated numbers for the year. You can imagine AI and AI doing a fully no human in the loop forecast. What quarter do you think Google's first fully-agentic forecast is? I definitely expect, in some of these areas, 27 to be an important inflection point for certain things. Even the people doing it, that is the workflow through which they would produce it. And maybe for a while, you would check it in the conventional way, but you can switch over across over. But I expect 27 to be a big year in which some of those shifts happened pretty profoundly. I think that was a lot's question, was engines an early adopter, but kind of outside of engine. And okay, so I'm forgetting 27, a lot of these non-enge processes really start up. I don't think your question earlier on, like, you know, I think you were asking the context of way more robotics like companies. I do think companies, which are, that's one advantage startups are going to have, more AI native teams, and you know, you can probably get it through your interview processes, etc., whereas for us we would have like retraining transformation, etc., and I think that's maybe an advantage like the younger companies are going to have. And we have to, you know, kind of like drive the transformation. Last question, we're talking a lot about initiatives that started small at Google, like the Transformer, which are not Google's main priority, you know, in that initiative started. What's a small thing inside Google that you're excited about these days? It probably would surprise people, like, you know, when we decided to do data centers in space, like, you know, we started as a very small team, right? So, it's literally a few people with a small budget to go to the first milestone. So I think it's important to start small, even if it's a big idea. So that is an example of a small thing. Look, I literally spent time yesterday who was explaining some improvement in post-training, which is like one person talking through the improvement they are doing, listening to it, I'm like, oh, that's going to like really show us like a nice jump, right? So that's the constant power of this moment until all of that. I don't want to be specific about the second one, but we've published it one day. I'm sure, you know, so but those are those are some of the small jumps I'm excited about. There's a data service in space and new about techniques. Yeah. Yeah. Good answer. Thunder, thank you. All right, real pleasure. Thanks. OK.
