Timestamp: 2025-05-27T10:10:28.987219
Title: Find Theses &amp; Dissertations from NTU Library and Worldwide [FIRST Workshop 20250515]
URL: https://youtube.com/watch?v=O1V4TWU41ds&si=lBXmz_5RosP3DENe
Status: success
Duration: 44:27

Description:
好的，这是基于文本内容的总结：

**核心要点：**

国家台湾大学图书馆提供和推荐多种线上线下资源及服务，帮助读者查找全球范围内的学位论文。

**总体框架：**

学位论文的定义与价值 -> 多样化的查找资源 (按范围分类) -> 获取方式与途径 -> 图书馆支持服务。

**总结大纲：**

1.  **学位论文 (Thesis & Dissertation) 概述**
    *   定义：硕士论文（Thesis）和博士论文（Dissertation）是学位的最终项目，篇幅较长，需导师委员会指导，禁止抄袭。
    *   术语差异：美式英语 vs. 英式英语 vs. 台湾（与美式一致）。
    *   价值：提供全面的文献综述和参考书目；反映研究趋势和新观点；帮助了解院系研究方向；可能找到潜在导师。
    *   注意：通常未经同行评审，引用前需咨询教授。

2.  **学位论文查找途径**
    *   **总体方式：** 主要通过国家图书馆、大学图书馆馆藏（印刷版）、机构知识库（电子版）和商业学术数据库获取。
    *   **按地区/国家分类的资源：**
        *   **台湾：** NDLTD in Taiwan (国家图书馆, 免费检索, 部分全文), 华艺线上图书馆 (AROT Library, 订阅数据库, 全文比例高), NTUTDR (台大机构库, 免费检索, 部分全文)。
        *   **美国/加拿大：** PQDT (ProQuest Dissertations & Theses, 订阅), DDC (Digital Dissertation Consortium)。
        *   **英国：** Ethos (电子论文在线服务, 当前因网络攻击不可用)。
        *   **澳大利亚：** Trove (搜索平台, 需筛选研究报告/论文)。
        *   **中国大陆：** CNKI (中国知网, 订阅, 建议通过 Tindall 访问, 中文界面)。
        *   **日本：** IRDB (机构库集成平台)。
        *   **全球 (开放获取为主)：** NDLTD Global (全球 ETD 搜索), OATD (开放获取论文), Core (连接机构库), Base (Bielefeld 学术搜索引擎)。
    *   **访问权限：** 部分数据库免费，部分需订阅（台大订购资源需校内网络或通过 VPN 访问）。
    *   **获取全文：**
        *   直接下载 (View Open, Free Access)
        *   延期开放 (需等待至指定日期)
        *   校内 IP 限制 (Access Limit in NTU IP Range, 需校内或 VPN 访问)
        *   未授权 (Restricted Access, 通常只能查阅印刷版)
    *   **查找台大论文：**
        *   电子版：优先查找 NDLTD in Taiwan, AROT, NTUTDR。
        *   印刷版：通过图书馆目录 ST 查找馆藏位置，多数在 ASRS 服务中心 (研究大楼非总图书馆)。需在线预约后前往 ASRS 借阅（注意开放时间）。

3.  **图书馆相关服务**
    *   **馆际互借 (Interlibrary Loan, ILL)：** 对于无法直接获取的论文，可通过 NDDS 等馆际互借服务获取（通常收费）。
    *   **论文提交 (NTU 学生)：** 毕业要求之一。需进行原创性比对（相似性报告），具体流程及标准联系系所办公室。论文格式及提交要求参考图书馆网站指南和视频。

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph LR
A["查找学位论文"] --> B["定义与价值"]
A --> C["查找资源分类"]
A --> D["获取方式"]
A --> E["图书馆相关服务"]

subgraph "查找资源分类"
C --> C1["台湾"]
C --> C2["特定区域"]
C3["全球 (开放获取为主)"] --> C
end

subgraph "台湾资源"
C1 --> NDLTD_TW["NDLTD in Taiwan\n(免费检索/部分全文)"]
C1 --> AROT["华艺线上图书馆 AROT\n(订阅)"]
C1 --> NTUTDR["NTUDR\n(台大机构库)"]
end

subgraph "特定区域资源"
C2 --> PQDT["PQDT (美/加)\n(订阅/部分预览)"]
C2 --> DDC["DDC (美/加)\n(订阅)"]
C2 --> Trove["Trove (澳)\n(需筛选/链接机构库)"]
C2 --> CNKI["CNKI (中)\n(订阅/中文界面)"]
C2 --> IRDB["IRDB (日)\n(链接机构库)"]
C2 --> Ethos["Ethos (英)\n(当前不可用)"]
end

subgraph "全球开放获取资源"
C3 --> NDLTD_G["NDLTD Global\n(链接机构库)"]
C3 --> OATD["OATD\n(链接机构库)"]
C3 --> Core["Core\n(链接机构库)"]
C3 --> Base["Base\n(链接机构库/部分OA)"]
end

subgraph "获取方式"
D --> D1["在线访问"]
D --> D2["印刷版"]
D1 --> D1a["免费下载"]
D1 --> D1b["订阅 (需VPN/校内)"]
D2 --> D2a["ASRS 服务中心\n(预约/借阅)"]
end

subgraph "图书馆相关服务"
E --> E1["馆际互借 (ILL)\n(如 NDDS, 收费)"]
E --> E2["论文提交 (NTU)\n(毕业要求/比对)"]
end

NDLTD_TW --> D1a
AROT --> D1b
NTUTDR --> D1a
PQDT --> D1b
DDC --> D1b
Trove --> D1a
CNKI --> D1b
IRDB --> D1a
NDLTD_G --> D1a
OATD --> D1a
Core --> D1a
Base --> D1a
Ethos --> D1b

NTUTDR --> D2
AROT --> D2
D2 --> D2a

B --> C
C --> D
E --> A

style A fill:#F9F7D8,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#333;
style B fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style C fill:#FFFFCC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style D fill:#FFFFCC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style E fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;

style D1 fill:#D3F3D3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style D2 fill:#FFD9D9,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style D1a fill:#B3E0B3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style D1b fill:#FFB3B3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style D2a fill:#FF9999,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;

style C1 fill:#E6F3FF,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style C2 fill:#E6F3FF,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style C3 fill:#E6F3FF,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;

style E1 fill:#D3F3D3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style E2 fill:#B3E0B3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;

style AROT fill:#FFD9D9,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style NTUTDR fill:#B3E0B3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style PQDT fill:#FFD9D9,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style DDC fill:#FFD9D9,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style CNKI fill:#FFD9D9,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style Ethos fill:#D3D3D3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;

style NDLTD_TW fill:#B3E0B3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style Trove fill:#B3E0B3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style IRDB fill:#B3E0B3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style NDLTD_G fill:#B3E0B3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style OATD fill:#B3E0B3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style Core fill:#B3E0B3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
style Base fill:#B3E0B3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en All right, it's time to begin our All right, it's time to begin our All right, it's time to begin our section. Thank you for joining us today. section. Thank you for joining us today. section. Thank you for joining us today. My name is Vicki and my colleague My name is Vicki and my colleague My name is Vicki and my colleague Sandra. We are subject librarians and Sandra. We are subject librarians and Sandra. We are subject librarians and today's speaker. In today's section, we today's speaker. In today's section, we today's speaker. In today's section, we will show you how to find thesis and will show you how to find thesis and will show you how to find thesis and dissertation from National Taiwan dissertation from National Taiwan dissertation from National Taiwan University Library and Worldw. We hope University Library and Worldw. We hope University Library and Worldw. We hope this section will support your learning this section will support your learning this section will support your learning and research. In this talk, we will begin by In this talk, we will begin by In this talk, we will begin by introducing what thesis and dissertation introducing what thesis and dissertation introducing what thesis and dissertation are and why they are important. Next, we are and why they are important. Next, we are and why they are important. Next, we will present several databases that can will present several databases that can will present several databases that can be used to find them in various uh be used to find them in various uh be used to find them in various uh regions and countries. After that, we regions and countries. After that, we regions and countries. After that, we will also introduce some library service will also introduce some library service will also introduce some library service that can further support your research that can further support your research that can further support your research such as inter library loan service. Part one, what is the thesis service. Part one, what is the thesis service. Part one, what is the thesis and what is the dissertation and why and what is the dissertation and why and what is the dissertation and why they are used in academic they are used in academic they are used in academic search? The thesis and dissertations are search? The thesis and dissertations are search? The thesis and dissertations are generally long pieces of academic generally long pieces of academic generally long pieces of academic writing much longer than the typical writing much longer than the typical writing much longer than the typical essay. Both are considered uh final essay. Both are considered uh final essay. Both are considered uh final projects um and usually are required to projects um and usually are required to projects um and usually are required to graduate with a degree uh masters or graduate with a degree uh masters or graduate with a degree uh masters or PhD. So both papers are given deadlines. PhD. So both papers are given deadlines. PhD. So both papers are given deadlines. The student must work with a The student must work with a The student must work with a committee comprised of faculty members committee comprised of faculty members committee comprised of faculty members and advisors who guide the students and advisors who guide the students and advisors who guide the students research and writing. Most importantly, research and writing. Most importantly, research and writing. Most importantly, neither can be neither can be neither can be plagiarized. If you're confused about plagiarized. If you're confused about plagiarized. If you're confused about the meaning of thesis versus the meaning of thesis versus the meaning of thesis versus dissertations, you are not alone. These dissertations, you are not alone. These dissertations, you are not alone. These two type of academic writing have a lot two type of academic writing have a lot two type of academic writing have a lot of in common but their meanings are uh of in common but their meanings are uh of in common but their meanings are uh reversed in American and British English reversed in American and British English reversed in American and British English depending on where you are in the world. depending on where you are in the world. depending on where you are in the world. The difference between a thesis and The difference between a thesis and The difference between a thesis and dissertation might change. In uh dissertation might change. In uh dissertation might change. In uh American English, a thesis is a a re American English, a thesis is a a re American English, a thesis is a a re sorry a thesis is a research papers sorry a thesis is a research papers sorry a thesis is a research papers needed to earn a master's degree while a needed to earn a master's degree while a needed to earn a master's degree while a dissertation is a research paper that's dissertation is a research paper that's dissertation is a research paper that's required to earn a doctorate degree. required to earn a doctorate degree. required to earn a doctorate degree. Keep in keep in mind that academic Keep in keep in mind that academic Keep in keep in mind that academic institution are very different in the US institution are very different in the US institution are very different in the US and the UK not to mention in each and the UK not to mention in each and the UK not to mention in each country. Let's take a look at Taiwan. In country. Let's take a look at Taiwan. In country. Let's take a look at Taiwan. In Taiwan, a thesis is a it's written by a Taiwan, a thesis is a it's written by a Taiwan, a thesis is a it's written by a master student and dissertation is when master student and dissertation is when master student and dissertation is when it's written by a PhD candidate. For example, it's a mass uh candidate. For example, it's a mass uh candidate. For example, it's a mass uh master thesis of a antiograduate master thesis of a antiograduate master thesis of a antiograduate student. The title page shows the student. The title page shows the student. The title page shows the antiograduate institute to which they antiograduate institute to which they antiograduate institute to which they belong. Here's the author names. We can belong. Here's the author names. We can belong. Here's the author names. We can also know the advisor and the uh the also know the advisor and the uh the also know the advisor and the uh the publication date. Just a reminder that publication date. Just a reminder that publication date. Just a reminder that NTU revised the formating guidelines a NTU revised the formating guidelines a NTU revised the formating guidelines a few years ago. If you are currently few years ago. If you are currently few years ago. If you are currently writing your own thesis, uh please note writing your own thesis, uh please note writing your own thesis, uh please note that master should be followed by thesis that master should be followed by thesis that master should be followed by thesis with an apostrophe. with an apostrophe. with an apostrophe. Here it's a doctoral dissertation of a Here it's a doctoral dissertation of a Here it's a doctoral dissertation of a PhD student. Let's look at this. PhD student. Let's look at this. PhD student. Let's look at this. Besides, according to the antio thesis Besides, according to the antio thesis Besides, according to the antio thesis and dissertation formatting guides, the and dissertation formatting guides, the and dissertation formatting guides, the content can be written in English, but content can be written in English, but content can be written in English, but the cover the cover the cover uh but the cover page must include both uh but the cover page must include both uh but the cover page must include both Chinese and English. So you should Chinese and English. So you should Chinese and English. So you should translate the title into Chinese and translate the title into Chinese and translate the title into Chinese and make sure the official Chinese name uh make sure the official Chinese name uh make sure the official Chinese name uh of your uh graduate institute or department. Let's look at the table of department. Let's look at the table of department. Let's look at the table of account of uh thesis. We can know the account of uh thesis. We can know the account of uh thesis. We can know the structure of the thesis or dissertation. structure of the thesis or dissertation. structure of the thesis or dissertation. There are several chapter chapter one There are several chapter chapter one There are several chapter chapter one through three and includes the through three and includes the through three and includes the methodology, literature, review, methodology, literature, review, methodology, literature, review, conclusion and the reference conclusion and the reference conclusion and the reference list. Actually, dissertation and thesis list. Actually, dissertation and thesis list. Actually, dissertation and thesis are valuable uh resources for academic are valuable uh resources for academic are valuable uh resources for academic research. They usually provide a research. They usually provide a research. They usually provide a comprehensive uh literature review and a comprehensive uh literature review and a comprehensive uh literature review and a detailed bibiography which can help you detailed bibiography which can help you detailed bibiography which can help you explore the topic more deeply. as a explore the topic more deeply. as a explore the topic more deeply. as a research material. They also uh reflect research material. They also uh reflect research material. They also uh reflect the emerging uh trends and new uh voices the emerging uh trends and new uh voices the emerging uh trends and new uh voices in a particular field. So you can in a particular field. So you can in a particular field. So you can discover more reference for writing your discover more reference for writing your discover more reference for writing your own paper. Also if you are not sure what own paper. Also if you are not sure what own paper. Also if you are not sure what a department or graduate program focus a department or graduate program focus a department or graduate program focus on their dissertation and thesis can on their dissertation and thesis can on their dissertation and thesis can give you a clear picture of their give you a clear picture of their give you a clear picture of their research areas. Maybe you can even find research areas. Maybe you can even find research areas. Maybe you can even find a potential advisor along the a potential advisor along the a potential advisor along the way. Keep in mind that dissertation and way. Keep in mind that dissertation and way. Keep in mind that dissertation and thesis are student works and they are thesis are student works and they are thesis are student works and they are usually not peer review. So it's usually not peer review. So it's usually not peer review. So it's important to check with your professor important to check with your professor important to check with your professor to see if you are allowed to sign the to see if you are allowed to sign the to see if you are allowed to sign the thesis or dissertation in your own thesis or dissertation in your own thesis or dissertation in your own research. Part two, uh, where are the research. Part two, uh, where are the research. Part two, uh, where are the thesis and dissertation and how do we thesis and dissertation and how do we thesis and dissertation and how do we find find find them? Generally, thesis and dissertation them? Generally, thesis and dissertation them? Generally, thesis and dissertation are not officially published, so it's are not officially published, so it's are not officially published, so it's difficult to buy them from any difficult to buy them from any difficult to buy them from any bookstore. In Taiwan, printed copies are bookstore. In Taiwan, printed copies are bookstore. In Taiwan, printed copies are archived in the national central archived in the national central archived in the national central library. We call it in Chinese and the library. We call it in Chinese and the library. We call it in Chinese and the library of the university where the uh library of the university where the uh library of the university where the uh author author author graduated. Many university also have graduated. Many university also have graduated. Many university also have their own institutional repositories their own institutional repositories their own institutional repositories where you can access electronic full where you can access electronic full where you can access electronic full text of the thesis and dissertations. text of the thesis and dissertations. text of the thesis and dissertations. Besides some commercial academic Besides some commercial academic Besides some commercial academic database provide access to the full text database provide access to the full text database provide access to the full text thesis and dissertations. In this talk we will dissertations. In this talk we will dissertations. In this talk we will introduce over 10 databases and digital introduce over 10 databases and digital introduce over 10 databases and digital repository from different regions and repository from different regions and repository from different regions and countries. For searching the thesis and countries. For searching the thesis and countries. For searching the thesis and dissertation in Taiwan, we can use ND in dissertation in Taiwan, we can use ND in dissertation in Taiwan, we can use ND in Taiwan, LRT library and NTUDR. Taiwan, LRT library and NTUDR. Taiwan, LRT library and NTUDR. If you need thesis and dissertation in If you need thesis and dissertation in If you need thesis and dissertation in the USA and Canada, you can use PQDT and the USA and Canada, you can use PQDT and the USA and Canada, you can use PQDT and DDC. As for UK, you can use ethos. TRO DDC. As for UK, you can use ethos. TRO DDC. As for UK, you can use ethos. TRO is for is for is for Australia. CNKI is for China. IRDB is Australia. CNKI is for China. IRDB is Australia. CNKI is for China. IRDB is for Japan. Also, we can use for Japan. Also, we can use for Japan. Also, we can use ND, ND, ND, OATD, core and base to gain more thesis OATD, core and base to gain more thesis OATD, core and base to gain more thesis and dissertation over the world. Some databases are free to access so you Some databases are free to access so you Some databases are free to access so you can use them anytime and any anywhere can use them anytime and any anywhere can use them anytime and any anywhere but foot in database such as DDR library but foot in database such as DDR library but foot in database such as DDR library PQDT DDC and CNKI can be download only PQDT DDC and CNKI can be download only PQDT DDC and CNKI can be download only on campus. If students and folky are out on campus. If students and folky are out on campus. If students and folky are out of campus, please set up VPN in advance. of campus, please set up VPN in advance. of campus, please set up VPN in advance. We will introduce how to use VPN service We will introduce how to use VPN service We will introduce how to use VPN service later. Now let's talk about how to find later. Now let's talk about how to find later. Now let's talk about how to find thesis or dissertations in thesis or dissertations in thesis or dissertations in Taiwan. If you want to search for thesis Taiwan. If you want to search for thesis Taiwan. If you want to search for thesis and dissertation from all university and and dissertation from all university and and dissertation from all university and college in Taiwan, you can use ND in college in Taiwan, you can use ND in college in Taiwan, you can use ND in Taiwan system. It's free. It's the most Taiwan system. It's free. It's the most Taiwan system. It's free. It's the most comprehensive platform of uh Taiwanese comprehensive platform of uh Taiwanese comprehensive platform of uh Taiwanese dissertation and thesis. While library dissertation and thesis. While library dissertation and thesis. While library is another database that provides the is another database that provides the is another database that provides the thesis and dissertation with full text thesis and dissertation with full text thesis and dissertation with full text until you subscribe to the database so until you subscribe to the database so until you subscribe to the database so that you can use in uh until campus or that you can use in uh until campus or that you can use in uh until campus or by VPN. As mentioned earlier, all masters and As mentioned earlier, all masters and As mentioned earlier, all masters and doctoral students should submit a doctoral students should submit a doctoral students should submit a printed copy of their thesis or printed copy of their thesis or printed copy of their thesis or dissertation to the national central dissertation to the national central dissertation to the national central library. So the national central library library. So the national central library library. So the national central library construct assistant ND in Taiwan Taiwan which provides a free search Taiwan which provides a free search Taiwan which provides a free search service. In addition, some thesis and service. In addition, some thesis and service. In addition, some thesis and dissertation are available for free full dissertation are available for free full dissertation are available for free full text text text download. Now is move uh let's move on download. Now is move uh let's move on download. Now is move uh let's move on to ND's homepage. In the basic searching to ND's homepage. In the basic searching to ND's homepage. In the basic searching more, you can uh select title, author, more, you can uh select title, author, more, you can uh select title, author, advisor, keywords or abstracts. If you advisor, keywords or abstracts. If you advisor, keywords or abstracts. If you would like to search on paper written by would like to search on paper written by would like to search on paper written by a specific student, you may type in a specific student, you may type in a specific student, you may type in their name and search by author. For their name and search by author. For their name and search by author. For example, we will search uh carbon text example, we will search uh carbon text example, we will search uh carbon text in the title and keyword fields. Here are the search result. As fields. Here are the search result. As fields. Here are the search result. As the result page shows, the first uh the result page shows, the first uh the result page shows, the first uh thesis is from uh Elan University and thesis is from uh Elan University and thesis is from uh Elan University and the second one is from National Taiwan the second one is from National Taiwan the second one is from National Taiwan University. Let's took uh look at the University. Let's took uh look at the University. Let's took uh look at the first first first one. The thesis is written in English. one. The thesis is written in English. one. The thesis is written in English. You can read the English uh You can read the English uh You can read the English uh abstract. If you want to study the abstract. If you want to study the abstract. If you want to study the thesis, please keep the permal your thesis, please keep the permal your thesis, please keep the permal your permal link. Furthermore, you can check permal link. Furthermore, you can check permal link. Furthermore, you can check the related articles in the the related articles in the the related articles in the databases. Just click on the tab above databases. Just click on the tab above databases. Just click on the tab above to see if the full text is provided. to see if the full text is provided. to see if the full text is provided. Please register for a account before you Please register for a account before you Please register for a account before you start to download a full text file. The start to download a full text file. The start to download a full text file. The email address used to register in NDLTD email address used to register in NDLTD email address used to register in NDLTD could be Gmail, Hotmail or another email could be Gmail, Hotmail or another email could be Gmail, Hotmail or another email service. Then the system will send you service. Then the system will send you service. Then the system will send you an email to activate the the account so an email to activate the the account so an email to activate the the account so that you can download the PDF file for that you can download the PDF file for that you can download the PDF file for free. Next, I will talk about another Next, I will talk about another Next, I will talk about another database, AROT database, AROT database, AROT library. Since the AROT library is a library. Since the AROT library is a library. Since the AROT library is a subscribe database, I suggest going subscribe database, I suggest going subscribe database, I suggest going through NT libraries website to SSC. through NT libraries website to SSC. through NT libraries website to SSC. Here is the NU library homepage. You can Here is the NU library homepage. You can Here is the NU library homepage. You can click the third tab, database. If you click the third tab, database. If you click the third tab, database. If you know uh already if you already know a know uh already if you already know a know uh already if you already know a specific database type the title in the specific database type the title in the specific database type the title in the past and click past and click past and click search. Then here is the hyperlink to search. Then here is the hyperlink to search. Then here is the hyperlink to the aot the aot the aot library. Before using the database there library. Before using the database there library. Before using the database there is a notification for you. Most of the is a notification for you. Most of the is a notification for you. Most of the antio uh libraries e resources are antio uh libraries e resources are antio uh libraries e resources are accessible within the campus network. accessible within the campus network. accessible within the campus network. However, when you are outside the campus However, when you are outside the campus However, when you are outside the campus at or at your home, you can still at or at your home, you can still at or at your home, you can still remotely access e resources uh through remotely access e resources uh through remotely access e resources uh through off-campus interneted internet connected off-campus interneted internet connected off-campus interneted internet connected services, also known as VPN, virtual services, also known as VPN, virtual services, also known as VPN, virtual private network. You need to do some settings network. You need to do some settings network. You need to do some settings for the first time. You can find the for the first time. You can find the for the first time. You can find the instruction for setting up the VPN under instruction for setting up the VPN under instruction for setting up the VPN under the service section of the libraries the service section of the libraries the service section of the libraries website. Just follow the steps provided website. Just follow the steps provided website. Just follow the steps provided there. While VPN service is provide there. While VPN service is provide there. While VPN service is provide provided by NTEU computer and provided by NTEU computer and provided by NTEU computer and information networking center, we call information networking center, we call information networking center, we call it in Chinese. If you get uh into it in Chinese. If you get uh into it in Chinese. If you get uh into trouble when setting up the VPN, please trouble when setting up the VPN, please trouble when setting up the VPN, please reach out to them for help. I'm going to reach out to them for help. I'm going to reach out to them for help. I'm going to explain how to set up a VPN step by explain how to set up a VPN step by explain how to set up a VPN step by step, but I do like to check if any of step, but I do like to check if any of step, but I do like to check if any of you have used VPN before. you have used VPN before. you have used VPN before. Yes. Okay. I can we can skip this part. Now let's get back on track and part. Now let's get back on track and part. Now let's get back on track and continue with our introduction to AOT continue with our introduction to AOT continue with our introduction to AOT library library library database. The database collects a thesis database. The database collects a thesis database. The database collects a thesis and dissertation for more than 70 and dissertation for more than 70 and dissertation for more than 70 university uh in Taiwan. The ROT library university uh in Taiwan. The ROT library university uh in Taiwan. The ROT library provides a higher proportion of full provides a higher proportion of full provides a higher proportion of full text. Besides, uh library also collects text. Besides, uh library also collects text. Besides, uh library also collects journal articles, magazines, and journal articles, magazines, and journal articles, magazines, and conference paper from Taiwan. We often conference paper from Taiwan. We often conference paper from Taiwan. We often use it for searching Taiwan's research use it for searching Taiwan's research use it for searching Taiwan's research articles. We are now on the homepage of articles. We are now on the homepage of articles. We are now on the homepage of the Arot Library. You can switch the the Arot Library. You can switch the the Arot Library. You can switch the language to English in the top right language to English in the top right language to English in the top right corner. If you would like to browse thesis and If you would like to browse thesis and If you would like to browse thesis and dissertation from a specific department dissertation from a specific department dissertation from a specific department or university, you can go to the or university, you can go to the or university, you can go to the publication sections and click on publication sections and click on publication sections and click on thesis. You may choose a certain thesis. You may choose a certain thesis. You may choose a certain university until you here direct uh to university until you here direct uh to university until you here direct uh to list of department and graduate list of department and graduate list of department and graduate institute then browse their thesis and institute then browse their thesis and institute then browse their thesis and dissertation. Take the department of dissertation. Take the department of dissertation. Take the department of psychology as an psychology as an psychology as an example. You may choose a certain year example. You may choose a certain year example. You may choose a certain year to browse or just type in some keywords to browse or just type in some keywords to browse or just type in some keywords here to search for thesis and here to search for thesis and here to search for thesis and dissertations by student from department dissertations by student from department dissertations by student from department of psychology. Let's go back to the psychology. Let's go back to the psychology. Let's go back to the homepage again. Library offers a homepage again. Library offers a homepage again. Library offers a advanced search function. Under the advanced search function. Under the advanced search function. Under the search search search bar, you can enter keywords for separate bar, you can enter keywords for separate bar, you can enter keywords for separate concepts in separate buses and combine concepts in separate buses and combine concepts in separate buses and combine them with boolean operators and or not. them with boolean operators and or not. them with boolean operators and or not. You can add a new line to make it more You can add a new line to make it more You can add a new line to make it more complicated search as well. Also, you complicated search as well. Also, you complicated search as well. Also, you can link the article type to can link the article type to can link the article type to thesis. From the search result page, you thesis. From the search result page, you thesis. From the search result page, you will notice that there are three types will notice that there are three types will notice that there are three types of access condition for full text of access condition for full text of access condition for full text depending on the author's depending on the author's depending on the author's authorization. Next, I will go over authorization. Next, I will go over authorization. Next, I will go over three example to expand in more three example to expand in more three example to expand in more detail. Here is the first example. It's detail. Here is the first example. It's detail. Here is the first example. It's a this is from university. It has a a this is from university. It has a a this is from university. It has a download button. So, you can download download button. So, you can download download button. So, you can download the full text uh PDF directly. By the the full text uh PDF directly. By the the full text uh PDF directly. By the way, if you are not uh on the until way, if you are not uh on the until way, if you are not uh on the until campus, please set up campus, please set up campus, please set up VPN. The next one uh why some authors VPN. The next one uh why some authors VPN. The next one uh why some authors choose to delay public access to their choose to delay public access to their choose to delay public access to their papers so the full test will become papers so the full test will become papers so the full test will become available only after a certain date. available only after a certain date. available only after a certain date. Let's look Let's look Let's look at let's look here. There is a note that at let's look here. There is a note that at let's look here. There is a note that this article will be available since this article will be available since this article will be available since 2029 August. So we could not download 2029 August. So we could not download 2029 August. So we could not download the full text in recent year. Maybe you the full text in recent year. Maybe you the full text in recent year. Maybe you can check if the national central can check if the national central can check if the national central library or the old university library library or the old university library library or the old university library has made the printed version available. Now let's look at the third available. Now let's look at the third available. Now let's look at the third example. is a thesis from NTEU is example. is a thesis from NTEU is example. is a thesis from NTEU is unauthorized because some user authors unauthorized because some user authors unauthorized because some user authors do not authorize full test access in the do not authorize full test access in the do not authorize full test access in the LT library LT library LT library database. So what can you do in that database. So what can you do in that database. So what can you do in that case? First try the NETD in Taiwan case? First try the NETD in Taiwan case? First try the NETD in Taiwan system to see if there any full text. If system to see if there any full text. If system to see if there any full text. If not, check the institutional repository not, check the institutional repository not, check the institutional repository repository of the author's repository of the author's repository of the author's university. If there is still no university. If there is still no university. If there is still no electronic version, just visit the electronic version, just visit the electronic version, just visit the author's university library or the author's university library or the author's university library or the natural central library for the printed copy. Now, let's take a look at how to copy. Now, let's take a look at how to copy. Now, let's take a look at how to search for thesis and dissertation search for thesis and dissertation search for thesis and dissertation written by NTEU students. written by NTEU students. written by NTEU students. First, if you are looking for an First, if you are looking for an First, if you are looking for an electronic version of the thesis or electronic version of the thesis or electronic version of the thesis or dissertation, you can try the do two dissertation, you can try the do two dissertation, you can try the do two database we introduce earlier and DLTD database we introduce earlier and DLTD database we introduce earlier and DLTD in Taiwan and ROT library. If you are in Taiwan and ROT library. If you are in Taiwan and ROT library. If you are not if you cannot find the full test in not if you cannot find the full test in not if you cannot find the full test in either of the two databases, you can try either of the two databases, you can try either of the two databases, you can try our university's own our university's own our university's own platform system. If the author has not platform system. If the author has not platform system. If the author has not authorized online uh access, so please authorized online uh access, so please authorized online uh access, so please uh visit the library to find the printed uh visit the library to find the printed uh visit the library to find the printed form of the dissertation or thesis. You form of the dissertation or thesis. You form of the dissertation or thesis. You can use our library catalog to check the can use our library catalog to check the can use our library catalog to check the location of the printed copy. Next I location of the printed copy. Next I location of the printed copy. Next I will talk about NUTDR and library SCA is will talk about NUTDR and library SCA is will talk about NUTDR and library SCA is known as um known as um known as um SLE NTU thesis and dissertation SLE NTU thesis and dissertation SLE NTU thesis and dissertation repository repository we call it TDR. repository repository we call it TDR. repository repository we call it TDR. TDR collects information and full text TDR collects information and full text TDR collects information and full text of thesis and dissertation since of thesis and dissertation since of thesis and dissertation since 1964. So far it provides more than 1964. So far it provides more than 1964. So far it provides more than 14, 000 free full 14, 000 free full 14, 000 free full text. You can enter TDR through NTU text. You can enter TDR through NTU text. You can enter TDR through NTU libraries website like we mentioned libraries website like we mentioned libraries website like we mentioned earlier. Now we are on the TDR website. earlier. Now we are on the TDR website. earlier. Now we are on the TDR website. On the top menu you may choose browse On the top menu you may choose browse On the top menu you may choose browse with option includes uh community and with option includes uh community and with option includes uh community and collection issue date, author, title and collection issue date, author, title and collection issue date, author, title and subject or just search the keyword for subject or just search the keyword for subject or just search the keyword for example air example air example air pollution. Here are the search results. pollution. Here are the search results. pollution. Here are the search results. The column one contains search bars and The column one contains search bars and The column one contains search bars and other uh optional filters. The column other uh optional filters. The column other uh optional filters. The column two shows the search results. The column two shows the search results. The column two shows the search results. The column three uh shows the analysis of the three uh shows the analysis of the three uh shows the analysis of the search results such as department, search results such as department, search results such as department, advisor, subject and etc. You can select advisor, subject and etc. You can select advisor, subject and etc. You can select the title which you need. Then you can the title which you need. Then you can the title which you need. Then you can see the detail information of the thesis see the detail information of the thesis see the detail information of the thesis or dissertation. Let's look at the thesis. You may see Let's look at the thesis. You may see Let's look at the thesis. You may see the uh keywords and abstract. When you the uh keywords and abstract. When you the uh keywords and abstract. When you scroll down to the end to uh you can see scroll down to the end to uh you can see scroll down to the end to uh you can see the access the access the access information. Luckily, the student information. Luckily, the student information. Luckily, the student authorize public access to her thesis. authorize public access to her thesis. authorize public access to her thesis. So, you can see a view open button which So, you can see a view open button which So, you can see a view open button which means you can download PDF file means you can download PDF file means you can download PDF file directly. Here is another example. There directly. Here is another example. There directly. Here is another example. There is a label is a label is a label says access limit in NTU IP range. This says access limit in NTU IP range. This says access limit in NTU IP range. This means you can only download the full means you can only download the full means you can only download the full test within the NTU campus. If you are test within the NTU campus. If you are test within the NTU campus. If you are not on NU campus, uh you need to set up VPN. Let's look at another example. VPN. Let's look at another example. VPN. Let's look at another example. There is a label that says restricted There is a label that says restricted There is a label that says restricted access. This means the full test is access. This means the full test is access. This means the full test is unauthorized. So you will need to visit unauthorized. So you will need to visit unauthorized. So you will need to visit the NU library to read the printed the NU library to read the printed the NU library to read the printed copies. So how to request the printed copies. So how to request the printed copies. So how to request the printed copy of a thesis or dissertations? Actually most fixes and dissertations? Actually most fixes and dissertations? Actually most fixes and dissertation are located in the ASR dissertation are located in the ASR dissertation are located in the ASR service center. Pay attention the center service center. Pay attention the center service center. Pay attention the center is not in this building. It's not in is not in this building. It's not in is not in this building. It's not in main library. So where is it? It's main library. So where is it? It's main library. So where is it? It's located on the first floor of lecture located on the first floor of lecture located on the first floor of lecture building. We say before going to the say before going to the say before going to the Ahs. Please search your library catalog Ahs. Please search your library catalog Ahs. Please search your library catalog and make a request. Now we are on the and make a request. Now we are on the and make a request. Now we are on the library homepage and our catalog is library homepage and our catalog is library homepage and our catalog is called called called ST. I select the catalog and type the ST. I select the catalog and type the ST. I select the catalog and type the dissertation title in the box. Then dissertation title in the box. Then dissertation title in the box. Then click the search click the search click the search button. Here is the search result. Just button. Here is the search result. Just button. Here is the search result. Just click the title to check more click the title to check more click the title to check more details. If the items location is ASR details. If the items location is ASR details. If the items location is ASR service center, you may place a online service center, you may place a online service center, you may place a online request. First, you need to sign in with request. First, you need to sign in with request. First, you need to sign in with your email account. Next, click on request pop button. The Next, click on request pop button. The Next, click on request pop button. The pickup location is ASR service center. pickup location is ASR service center. pickup location is ASR service center. Then click on send request. After Then click on send request. After Then click on send request. After successfully requesting the item, you successfully requesting the item, you successfully requesting the item, you will receive an email will receive an email will receive an email notification. After receiving the email, notification. After receiving the email, notification. After receiving the email, please pick out your requested item in please pick out your requested item in please pick out your requested item in the ASRS service center. the ASRS service center. the ASRS service center. Besides ASRS means automatic storage and Besides ASRS means automatic storage and Besides ASRS means automatic storage and retrieval system. Notice that ASR retrieval system. Notice that ASR retrieval system. Notice that ASR service center opening hours is from service center opening hours is from service center opening hours is from Monday to Friday 9: 00 to 18: 30. Now let's fly to the USN and 18: 30. Now let's fly to the USN and 18: 30. Now let's fly to the USN and Canada. PQDt is the abbreviation of Canada. PQDt is the abbreviation of Canada. PQDt is the abbreviation of progress dissertation and thesis. It's progress dissertation and thesis. It's progress dissertation and thesis. It's the largest abstract of master thesis the largest abstract of master thesis the largest abstract of master thesis and doctor dissertation in scale. PQDt and doctor dissertation in scale. PQDt and doctor dissertation in scale. PQDt has more than 5 million pieces of thesis has more than 5 million pieces of thesis has more than 5 million pieces of thesis and dissertation index from the USA and and dissertation index from the USA and and dissertation index from the USA and Canada. There are also some papers from Canada. There are also some papers from Canada. There are also some papers from South America, Europe, Africa and Asia. This is a dissertation published p Asia. This is a dissertation published p Asia. This is a dissertation published p after after after 1997. allow free browsing for the first 1997. allow free browsing for the first 1997. allow free browsing for the first 24 pages in PQDt 24 pages in PQDt 24 pages in PQDt database. If P if PQDt doesn't provide a database. If P if PQDt doesn't provide a database. If P if PQDt doesn't provide a full text PDF of what you need, you can full text PDF of what you need, you can full text PDF of what you need, you can try the relevant database DDC digital try the relevant database DDC digital try the relevant database DDC digital dissertation consortia consortion. dissertation consortia consortion. dissertation consortia consortion. Besides, if you are not on campus, Besides, if you are not on campus, Besides, if you are not on campus, please set up please set up please set up VPN. As we mentioned earlier, you can VPN. As we mentioned earlier, you can VPN. As we mentioned earlier, you can enter PQDt database through NTU enter PQDt database through NTU enter PQDt database through NTU libraries libraries libraries website. Then click the title to access website. Then click the title to access website. Then click the title to access the the the database. Before uh starting, you can database. Before uh starting, you can database. Before uh starting, you can switch the language in the upper right switch the language in the upper right switch the language in the upper right corner. In the advanced search corner. In the advanced search corner. In the advanced search page, you can search keywords in several page, you can search keywords in several page, you can search keywords in several fields such as title, abstract, and fields such as title, abstract, and fields such as title, abstract, and subject. You can also narrow down the subject. You can also narrow down the subject. You can also narrow down the publication publication publication date. Then scroll down the page. There date. Then scroll down the page. There date. Then scroll down the page. There are other filters such as author, are other filters such as author, are other filters such as author, advisor, university, and language. You advisor, university, and language. You advisor, university, and language. You can also select a master or doctoral can also select a master or doctoral can also select a master or doctoral degree. Here are the uh search results. degree. Here are the uh search results. degree. Here are the uh search results. You can narrow down the result by the You can narrow down the result by the You can narrow down the result by the filter on the left hand side such a filter on the left hand side such a filter on the left hand side such a publication, year, subject, and publication, year, subject, and publication, year, subject, and university. university. university. If there is a full text PDF button under If there is a full text PDF button under If there is a full text PDF button under the thesis title, you can download the the thesis title, you can download the the thesis title, you can download the full text directly. If there is no full text, you directly. If there is no full text, you directly. If there is no full text, you can preview a few pages. Then try can preview a few pages. Then try can preview a few pages. Then try another way to get the full another way to get the full another way to get the full text. We may only preview partial pages text. We may only preview partial pages text. We may only preview partial pages of the paper on PQDt database. Notice of the paper on PQDt database. Notice of the paper on PQDt database. Notice that in the uh full text option there's that in the uh full text option there's that in the uh full text option there's a link to DDC. So I click on the link to a link to DDC. So I click on the link to a link to DDC. So I click on the link to check if the DDC database has the full check if the DDC database has the full check if the DDC database has the full text. Next it's directed to the digital text. Next it's directed to the digital text. Next it's directed to the digital dissertation consortion DDC database. dissertation consortion DDC database. dissertation consortion DDC database. The web page will show whether they have The web page will show whether they have The web page will show whether they have the full text or not. Luckily, I can the full text or not. Luckily, I can the full text or not. Luckily, I can download the PDF full text on the DDC download the PDF full text on the DDC download the PDF full text on the DDC database. Besides, you can also search database. Besides, you can also search database. Besides, you can also search the thesis and dissertation from the DDC the thesis and dissertation from the DDC the thesis and dissertation from the DDC databases databases databases homepage. Now, let's fly to Australia. homepage. Now, let's fly to Australia. homepage. Now, let's fly to Australia. Sorry. TRO is a discovery platform Sorry. TRO is a discovery platform Sorry. TRO is a discovery platform constructed by the National Library of constructed by the National Library of constructed by the National Library of Australia. It allows user to search for Australia. It allows user to search for Australia. It allows user to search for thesis, books, journals, newspapers, thesis, books, journals, newspapers, thesis, books, journals, newspapers, image and so on. image and so on. image and so on. We can use the advanced search function We can use the advanced search function We can use the advanced search function to find the Australian thesis at all to find the Australian thesis at all to find the Australian thesis at all levels including PhD and masters. Next, levels including PhD and masters. Next, levels including PhD and masters. Next, select research p uh and research and select research p uh and research and select research p uh and research and reports in the drop-down reports in the drop-down reports in the drop-down menu. Next, a new window will open with menu. Next, a new window will open with menu. Next, a new window will open with several fields and filters. I type koala several fields and filters. I type koala several fields and filters. I type koala in the title field. Then under format I in the title field. Then under format I in the title field. Then under format I select this is from the drop-down menu. select this is from the drop-down menu. select this is from the drop-down menu. Finally I click the search icon in the Finally I click the search icon in the Finally I click the search icon in the upper right upper right upper right corner. Here are the search results. corner. Here are the search results. corner. Here are the search results. Take a look at the right hand side. I Take a look at the right hand side. I Take a look at the right hand side. I limit the date after 2020. In order to limit the date after 2020. In order to limit the date after 2020. In order to get the full text quickly and directly, get the full text quickly and directly, get the full text quickly and directly, I select free assets. Here is a thesis written in assets. Here is a thesis written in assets. Here is a thesis written in 2023. We can see a brief summary on this 2023. We can see a brief summary on this 2023. We can see a brief summary on this page. Then click the read button. It page. Then click the read button. It page. Then click the read button. It shows that you can access the full text shows that you can access the full text shows that you can access the full text for free from the University of for free from the University of for free from the University of Queensland institutional repository. Queensland institutional repository. Queensland institutional repository. Next, click the link to find the full Next, click the link to find the full Next, click the link to find the full text. It uh will take us to the text. It uh will take us to the text. It uh will take us to the University of Queensland's website where University of Queensland's website where University of Queensland's website where you can download the full text PDF for you can download the full text PDF for you can download the full text PDF for free. Okay. So far, we've known the free. Okay. So far, we've known the free. Okay. So far, we've known the database in different countries and database in different countries and database in different countries and areas. And is is there any database for areas. And is is there any database for areas. And is is there any database for searching dations and data over the searching dations and data over the searching dations and data over the world? And yes it there's uh four free world? And yes it there's uh four free world? And yes it there's uh four free database database database NDLTD OATD core and NDLTD OATD core and NDLTD OATD core and bass. The first one is NDLTD global bass. The first one is NDLTD global bass. The first one is NDLTD global theor digital library of the theor digital library of the theor digital library of the dissertation as a n uh international dissertation as a n uh international dissertation as a n uh international organization dedicated to promoting the organization dedicated to promoting the organization dedicated to promoting the creation use and the preservation of the creation use and the preservation of the creation use and the preservation of the electronic theories and dissertations. a electronic theories and dissertations. a electronic theories and dissertations. a class uh bibliography information of the class uh bibliography information of the class uh bibliography information of the DC and dissertation from 100 university DC and dissertation from 100 university DC and dissertation from 100 university and from over 100 university and and from over 100 university and and from over 100 university and institute. institute. institute. Let's take a look at NDLCD's website and Let's take a look at NDLCD's website and Let's take a look at NDLCD's website and on global ETD search page. You can use on global ETD search page. You can use on global ETD search page. You can use basic search and you can also click the search and you can also click the search and you can also click the advanced search tips to look for a advanced search tips to look for a advanced search tips to look for a specific pieces of information by specific pieces of information by specific pieces of information by applying the different searching applying the different searching applying the different searching operators. And here are the search results. Like And here are the search results. Like And here are the search results. Like database we mentioned earlier on the database we mentioned earlier on the database we mentioned earlier on the left hand side you can narrow down the left hand side you can narrow down the left hand side you can narrow down the result by publication year the language result by publication year the language result by publication year the language and certain and certain and certain sources and tag this is for example sources and tag this is for example sources and tag this is for example there is a link that provides source of there is a link that provides source of there is a link that provides source of for test and it usually directs to the for test and it usually directs to the for test and it usually directs to the web page where the article are stored web page where the article are stored web page where the article are stored and like the repository system and like the repository system and like the repository system diva it built by the cor uh diva it built by the cor uh diva it built by the cor uh corresponding university. So you can corresponding university. So you can corresponding university. So you can download the forecast PDF in the website. Okay. However, due to the website. Okay. However, due to the website. Okay. However, due to the technical issue technical issue technical issue now is supported by OATD to solve the now is supported by OATD to solve the now is supported by OATD to solve the HTTP to uh HTTPS redirecting problem. So HTTP to uh HTTPS redirecting problem. So HTTP to uh HTTPS redirecting problem. So it's sometimes overloaded by the triplew it's sometimes overloaded by the triplew it's sometimes overloaded by the triplew robots. So when you face this situation, robots. So when you face this situation, robots. So when you face this situation, don't be panicked. Just try it again in don't be panicked. Just try it again in don't be panicked. Just try it again in a little a little a little while. Okay? Or you can go to the NDLTD while. Okay? Or you can go to the NDLTD while. Okay? Or you can go to the NDLTD website, find the ETD search in the M website, find the ETD search in the M website, find the ETD search in the M menu, and choose the find ETDs to know menu, and choose the find ETDs to know menu, and choose the find ETDs to know more about the member repositories. Okay. The second database repositories. Okay. The second database repositories. Okay. The second database is OAT the open access the is OAT the open access the is OAT the open access the dissertations. It's the resource for dissertations. It's the resource for dissertations. It's the resource for finding open access gradual aid level finding open access gradual aid level finding open access gradual aid level thesis and dissertations published thesis and dissertations published thesis and dissertations published around the world. It's currently indexes around the world. It's currently indexes around the world. It's currently indexes over 7 million the dissertations from over 7 million the dissertations from over 7 million the dissertations from over 1, 1 and 100 colleges and over 1, 1 and 100 colleges and over 1, 1 and 100 colleges and universities. Okay. So it's the OATD universities. Okay. So it's the OATD universities. Okay. So it's the OATD homepage. You can search keywords in the homepage. You can search keywords in the homepage. You can search keywords in the search search search box and it will box and it will box and it will provide the advanced search option and provide the advanced search option and provide the advanced search option and we can search from the title, we can search from the title, we can search from the title, university, uh title, author name, university, uh title, author name, university, uh title, author name, abstract, university, publisher or abstract, university, publisher or abstract, university, publisher or subject, keywords etc. also limited to subject, keywords etc. also limited to subject, keywords etc. also limited to the particular the particular the particular language. Okay. And the country and the range. So here is the uh search result. range. So here is the uh search result. range. So here is the uh search result. We can refine the result by date, We can refine the result by date, We can refine the result by date, university, uh department, etc. And the university, uh department, etc. And the university, uh department, etc. And the search result will include links to for search result will include links to for search result will include links to for test on the original hosting site. test on the original hosting site. test on the original hosting site. usually the institute uh institutional usually the institute uh institutional usually the institute uh institutional repository of the school that grants the repository of the school that grants the repository of the school that grants the degree or you can click on record degree or you can click on record degree or you can click on record details for more information. Okay. And it's a information. Okay. And it's a information. Okay. And it's a dissertation in OTD database as the for dissertation in OTD database as the for dissertation in OTD database as the for record uh shows the dissertation is from record uh shows the dissertation is from record uh shows the dissertation is from Germany Germany Germany and there is a link that provides the and there is a link that provides the and there is a link that provides the for test sources and it directs to the for test sources and it directs to the for test sources and it directs to the university's web page. Then you can university's web page. Then you can university's web page. Then you can download the PDF for download the PDF for download the PDF for test by this button. Okay, let's move on to core. It's a Okay, let's move on to core. It's a Okay, let's move on to core. It's a connecting repository. They provide a connecting repository. They provide a connecting repository. They provide a comprehensive biblioraphic database of comprehensive biblioraphic database of comprehensive biblioraphic database of the world's scholarly literature and the world's scholarly literature and the world's scholarly literature and collecting and indexing research from collecting and indexing research from collecting and indexing research from repositories and journals. And core repositories and journals. And core repositories and journals. And core currently contain four uh currently contain four uh currently contain four uh 49 million open access articles 49 million open access articles 49 million open access articles collected from 13, 000 data providers collected from 13, 000 data providers collected from 13, 000 data providers around the world. around the world. around the world. We can use this search box to simply We can use this search box to simply We can use this search box to simply start a start a start a search. Okay. So, here's the search search. Okay. So, here's the search search. Okay. So, here's the search results. If you want to search more results. If you want to search more results. If you want to search more precisely, you can click how to search precisely, you can click how to search precisely, you can click how to search to get more search tips like this page. to get more search tips like this page. to get more search tips like this page. You can know more about the searching You can know more about the searching You can know more about the searching operators in core uh like using the operators in core uh like using the operators in core uh like using the quotation mark to run exact m uh exact quotation mark to run exact m uh exact quotation mark to run exact m uh exact matching or use the boolean operator to matching or use the boolean operator to matching or use the boolean operator to combine the search keyword or quickly combine the search keyword or quickly combine the search keyword or quickly search by the uh DOI by t by titles. Okay. And then we're back to the titles. Okay. And then we're back to the titles. Okay. And then we're back to the search results. You can apply the filter search results. You can apply the filter search results. You can apply the filter to narrow down the results such as to narrow down the results such as to narrow down the results such as limiting the type to the the also take this for example in the the also take this for example in the the also take this for example in the bibiography record you can see the basic bibiography record you can see the basic bibiography record you can see the basic information the similar works and here information the similar works and here information the similar works and here you can find the source of test in the you can find the source of test in the you can find the source of test in the right side and you might have many right side and you might have many right side and you might have many choices like directly choices like directly choices like directly downloading the PDF or go through the downloading the PDF or go through the downloading the PDF or go through the repository landing pages to get a full test. Okay. Next uh next we shift to the test. Okay. Next uh next we shift to the test. Okay. Next uh next we shift to the base. The full name is Bill academic base. The full name is Bill academic base. The full name is Bill academic searching engine. base is operated by searching engine. base is operated by searching engine. base is operated by Bellafl University Library and the index Bellafl University Library and the index Bellafl University Library and the index contains more than 400 million records contains more than 400 million records contains more than 400 million records from more than uh 11, 000 content from more than uh 11, 000 content from more than uh 11, 000 content providers. You can access the forecast providers. You can access the forecast providers. You can access the forecast of about 60 uh 60% of the index uh of about 60 uh 60% of the index uh of about 60 uh 60% of the index uh record for free and it's extensive record for free and it's extensive record for free and it's extensive indexing score allows it to provide a indexing score allows it to provide a indexing score allows it to provide a fairly comprehensive bibography of the fairly comprehensive bibography of the fairly comprehensive bibography of the especially concerning resource from especially concerning resource from especially concerning resource from Europe. In base you can simply start a Europe. In base you can simply start a Europe. In base you can simply start a search by basic search search by basic search search by basic search box or we can start a search with box or we can start a search with box or we can start a search with advanced search function. For example, advanced search function. For example, advanced search function. For example, now I try to find the related about rice now I try to find the related about rice now I try to find the related about rice husk bar chart in reason five years. So husk bar chart in reason five years. So husk bar chart in reason five years. So to explore the data collection in this to explore the data collection in this to explore the data collection in this platform first uh I can type in uh the platform first uh I can type in uh the platform first uh I can type in uh the keyword rise horse cabra or the keyword rise horse cabra or the keyword rise horse cabra or the abbreviation RHB combine with the or the abbreviation RHB combine with the or the abbreviation RHB combine with the or the boolean operator in all boolean operator in all boolean operator in all fails and then fails and then fails and then uh check the doc uh document type and uh check the doc uh document type and uh check the doc uh document type and cities and including the bachelor's, cities and including the bachelor's, cities and including the bachelor's, masters and doctoral and the masters and doctoral and the masters and doctoral and the postdoctoral postdoctoral postdoctoral thesis. Then fill in the year from uh thesis. Then fill in the year from uh thesis. Then fill in the year from uh 2020 to 2020 to 2020 to 2025. And finally click the search 2025. And finally click the search 2025. And finally click the search button to start the search. And in the button to start the search. And in the button to start the search. And in the search search search results we can see the search query in results we can see the search query in results we can see the search query in the top and the left hand side is the the top and the left hand side is the the top and the left hand side is the result list. And here are result list. And here are result list. And here are 92 document match with our search query. 92 document match with our search query. 92 document match with our search query. And the right side list with the sort And the right side list with the sort And the right side list with the sort order options and filters which can order options and filters which can order options and filters which can narrow down the narrow down the narrow down the results. And in the result list, we can results. And in the result list, we can results. And in the result list, we can click on the record title and it will click on the record title and it will click on the record title and it will direct you to the website of the direct you to the website of the direct you to the website of the repository or the content provider. So repository or the content provider. So repository or the content provider. So you can download the PDF uh the full you can download the PDF uh the full you can download the PDF uh the full test or the PDF test or the PDF test or the PDF and you can click the detail view to see and you can click the detail view to see and you can click the detail view to see more detail about the record. Okay. You can also use the record. Okay. You can also use the record. Okay. You can also use the browse function to explore the content browse function to explore the content browse function to explore the content of base such as browse by of base such as browse by of base such as browse by DDC or by the document type or by access privilege. Okay. Now let's fly to the privilege. Okay. Now let's fly to the privilege. Okay. Now let's fly to the United Kingdom to talk about the ethos United Kingdom to talk about the ethos United Kingdom to talk about the ethos uh the electronic cities online service uh the electronic cities online service uh the electronic cities online service as a bibography database and the union as a bibography database and the union as a bibography database and the union catalog of electronic cities provided by catalog of electronic cities provided by catalog of electronic cities provided by British library. The National Library of British library. The National Library of British library. The National Library of United Kingdom and the collection only United Kingdom and the collection only United Kingdom and the collection only covers doctoral covers doctoral covers doctoral theories. But unfortunately due to the theories. But unfortunately due to the theories. But unfortunately due to the significant uh cyber attack on bridge uh significant uh cyber attack on bridge uh significant uh cyber attack on bridge uh bridges uh library since bridges uh library since bridges uh library since 2023. So now the EOS is currently 2023. So now the EOS is currently 2023. So now the EOS is currently unavailable and maybe restore in this unavailable and maybe restore in this unavailable and maybe restore in this year. Okay, now let's take a look at some Okay, now let's take a look at some Okay, now let's take a look at some additional database in Asia region. And additional database in Asia region. And additional database in Asia region. And if you want to find the theories or if you want to find the theories or if you want to find the theories or dissertation from China and you are dissertation from China and you are dissertation from China and you are familiar with Chinese, you can use the familiar with Chinese, you can use the familiar with Chinese, you can use the CNKI database and it's the China CNKI database and it's the China CNKI database and it's the China national knowledge infrastructure and national knowledge infrastructure and national knowledge infrastructure and class doctoral dissertation from over class doctoral dissertation from over class doctoral dissertation from over 500 schools and the master that is from 500 schools and the master that is from 500 schools and the master that is from over 780 schools since over 780 schools since over 780 schools since 1984 in China. uh CNK is a massive 1984 in China. uh CNK is a massive 1984 in China. uh CNK is a massive academic search platform where uh when academic search platform where uh when academic search platform where uh when the uh researcher want to find academic the uh researcher want to find academic the uh researcher want to find academic work from work from work from China, this is often the first platform China, this is often the first platform China, this is often the first platform they think of. You can enter CNKI from NU library of. You can enter CNKI from NU library of. You can enter CNKI from NU library website and please note that we only website and please note that we only website and please note that we only subscribe to selected subject subscribe to selected subject subscribe to selected subject collections. So make sure to check the collections. So make sure to check the collections. So make sure to check the coverage of ear available for four test coverage of ear available for four test coverage of ear available for four test assets before using it and I will assets before using it and I will assets before using it and I will suggest you to enter CNKI by Tinda site suggest you to enter CNKI by Tinda site suggest you to enter CNKI by Tinda site since it's more since it's more since it's more quickly. Okay. However, the website is quickly. Okay. However, the website is quickly. Okay. However, the website is only in Chinese. So if you really eager only in Chinese. So if you really eager only in Chinese. So if you really eager to find it is about the topics you are to find it is about the topics you are to find it is about the topics you are interested in as more as comprehensive interested in as more as comprehensive interested in as more as comprehensive as possible maybe you could use the as possible maybe you could use the as possible maybe you could use the Google translation for your convenience. Okay. Next, let's talk convenience. Okay. Next, let's talk convenience. Okay. Next, let's talk about five cities and dissertations from about five cities and dissertations from about five cities and dissertations from Japan. The IRDB institutional uh Japan. The IRDB institutional uh Japan. The IRDB institutional uh repositories repositories repositories database. It's an integration platform database. It's an integration platform database. It's an integration platform for Japan academic institution for Japan academic institution for Japan academic institution collection collection collection databases. It was established by Japan's databases. It was established by Japan's databases. It was established by Japan's national instit uh institute of national instit uh institute of national instit uh institute of information science. And now we enter information science. And now we enter information science. And now we enter this database. Before start, you can this database. Before start, you can this database. Before start, you can switch to the language to switch to the language to switch to the language to English and enter the keyword you want English and enter the keyword you want English and enter the keyword you want to search in the search box such as to search in the search box such as to search in the search box such as Taiwan. And please click the advanced Taiwan. And please click the advanced Taiwan. And please click the advanced search. Then click the resource type to search. Then click the resource type to search. Then click the resource type to show uh uh to show the list in different show uh uh to show the list in different show uh uh to show the list in different uh resource type. uh resource type. uh resource type. You can select the resource type about You can select the resource type about You can select the resource type about the and dissertations such as theis, bachelor dissertations such as theis, bachelor dissertations such as theis, bachelor theis, master theis or doctoral theis theis, master theis or doctoral theis theis, master theis or doctoral theis and finally click the search button to and finally click the search button to and finally click the search button to start a start a start a search. Okay. So here you can see the search. Okay. So here you can see the search. Okay. So here you can see the the select the uh select the title which the select the uh select the title which the select the uh select the title which you are interested in and then you can you are interested in and then you can you are interested in and then you can see the detail information of the thesis see the detail information of the thesis see the detail information of the thesis or or or dissertation. In the file dissertation. In the file dissertation. In the file row it will show you the link of the for row it will show you the link of the for row it will show you the link of the for test file and you can download the test file and you can download the test file and you can download the forest PDF. Okay, let's review the databases PDF. Okay, let's review the databases PDF. Okay, let's review the databases we've mentioned today for searching the we've mentioned today for searching the we've mentioned today for searching the dissertations in Taiwan. We can use dissertations in Taiwan. We can use dissertations in Taiwan. We can use NDLTD in Taiwan, uh, Arator Library and NDLTD in Taiwan, uh, Arator Library and NDLTD in Taiwan, uh, Arator Library and NGDR. NGDR. NGDR. For other regions or countries, we can For other regions or countries, we can For other regions or countries, we can search the PQDt, DDC, TRO, CNKI, IRB or search the PQDt, DDC, TRO, CNKI, IRB or search the PQDt, DDC, TRO, CNKI, IRB or we can use the we can use the we can use the NDLTD, OATD core and BAS to get more NDLTD, OATD core and BAS to get more NDLTD, OATD core and BAS to get more preparers over the world. Okay. So sometimes you might not world. Okay. So sometimes you might not world. Okay. So sometimes you might not get full test from the database above get full test from the database above get full test from the database above such as older dictations. You may need such as older dictations. You may need such as older dictations. You may need to try the inter library loan to try the inter library loan to try the inter library loan service. If users cannot get their service. If users cannot get their service. If users cannot get their needed cities or dissertations through needed cities or dissertations through needed cities or dissertations through the databases we mentioned earlier, NTEU the databases we mentioned earlier, NTEU the databases we mentioned earlier, NTEU faculty and the student can seek for the faculty and the student can seek for the faculty and the student can seek for the inter library loan service such as inter library loan service such as inter library loan service such as NDDS and usually this service fee is NDDS and usually this service fee is NDDS and usually this service fee is needed. It's not free. For more information, please check NTEU For more information, please check NTEU For more information, please check NTEU library website and on the homepage, library website and on the homepage, library website and on the homepage, please click the service from the main please click the service from the main please click the service from the main menu and visit the inter library loan menu and visit the inter library loan menu and visit the inter library loan service section. And I want to know if is there any And I want to know if is there any And I want to know if is there any master or doctoral student master or doctoral student master or doctoral student here. Okay. So you know this one the here. Okay. So you know this one the here. Okay. So you know this one the similar similar similar report and here's the com uh complement report and here's the com uh complement report and here's the com uh complement information for you that all masters and information for you that all masters and information for you that all masters and doctoral students are required to doctoral students are required to doctoral students are required to complete a thesis or dissertation or complete a thesis or dissertation or complete a thesis or dissertation or originality comparison before originality comparison before originality comparison before graduation. graduation. graduation. for account activating uh for for for account activating uh for for for account activating uh for for account activation and setting related account activation and setting related account activation and setting related to similar report standards. Please to similar report standards. Please to similar report standards. Please contact your department contact your department contact your department office. If you have any question or office. If you have any question or office. If you have any question or concerns about the content of this uh concerns about the content of this uh concerns about the content of this uh similarity report, please discuss them similarity report, please discuss them similarity report, please discuss them with your with your with your advisor. Okay. By the way, since the thesis By the way, since the thesis By the way, since the thesis dissertation submission and graduation dissertation submission and graduation dissertation submission and graduation procedures can be a bit complicated, we procedures can be a bit complicated, we procedures can be a bit complicated, we recommend that you start preparing recommend that you start preparing recommend that you start preparing earlier and read the guidelines earlier and read the guidelines earlier and read the guidelines carefully on the libraries website. You can find all detailed information on You can find all detailed information on You can find all detailed information on our website such as the format guideline our website such as the format guideline our website such as the format guideline and uh instruction and uh instruction and uh instruction video. If you will submit the video. If you will submit the video. If you will submit the dissertation or thesis recently, we dissertation or thesis recently, we dissertation or thesis recently, we suggest you watch the video in advance. It's the end of the workshop. advance. It's the end of the workshop. advance. It's the end of the workshop. Thank you for joining us today. Goodbye.
