Timestamp: 2026-05-30T00:44:36.541437
Title: 区块链圣手 - 身为美国最大银行掌舵人的杰米·戴蒙，每年会拿出90亿美元投入科技领域，银行每日的全球资金流转更是达到6万亿美元。 早前他在斯坦福大学发表... 2060199302757310912
URL: https://x.com/Cryptoss168/status/2060199302757310912?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 57:00

Description:
### PART 1. 作者思想地图 (Author's Map)

#### 1. 核心论点 (Core Thesis)
高效、坚韧的企业和强劲的国家经济，建立在**彻底的坦诚（Candor）**、**消除官僚主义与政治内耗**、**坚持机构忠诚重于个人效忠的功绩制（Meritocracy）**，以及**政府与商业界在税收、监管和人才培养方面的务实合作**之上。

#### 2. 论据支撑 (Evidentiary Base)
*   **个人职业决策（轶事/类比）**：在哈佛商学院毕业时，放弃高盛等传统投行，选择担任桑迪·威尔（Sandy Weill）的助理，以此深入观察大型企业（Shearson/AmEx）的内部运作。
*   **摩根大通的运营数据（硬数据）**：每日在全球数字化移动6万亿美元资金；每年技术支出达90亿美元，网络安全支出达7亿美元；高管团队中50%的直接下属为女性。
*   **历史与行业先例（历史先例）**：1915年、1970年和1990年《财富》500强中倒闭的企业，其根本原因均在于“愚蠢、官僚、落后和政治化”。
*   **“伦敦鲸”事件（案例研究）**：2012年因伦敦交易员巨亏60亿美元，虽然当年摩根大通仍创下历史最高利润且未损害客户利益，但被政府追加罚款20亿美元。
*   **宏观经济对比（地缘政治分析）**：美国拥有无可匹敌的资源（粮食、水、能源、地缘安全、顶尖大学、法治）；相比之下，中国面临严峻的资源短缺及复杂的周边地缘政治挑战。

#### 3. 逻辑推导 (Logical Warrant)
*   **反官僚主义推论（归纳法）**：历史证明，官僚主义会驱逐优秀人才与创新，使并肩作战的同事变成竞争对手。因此，简化组织结构、推行“预读（Pre-reads）”制度、强制跨部门先期沟通，是维持企业生命力的唯一途径。
*   **信息对称逻辑（因果推论）**：如果在企业内部允许对公众或媒体进行“公关粉饰（Spinning）”，这种不诚实的行为必然会向内渗透，导致下属对CEO隐瞒真相。因此，对内、对外、对董事会必须保持完全一致的坦诚。
*   **主权货币排他性假设（三段论推导）**：
    *   *大前提*：主权国家为了反恐、保护散户和维护铸币税，必然要求绝对控制其货币和资金流向。
    *   *小前提*：比特币等去中心化加密货币旨在规避国家监管，且常用于非法活动（如委内瑞拉、非法洗钱）。
    *   *结论*：一旦加密货币规模过大，主权国家（如美国司法部）必然会出手将其彻底摧毁。

#### 4. 限定范围 (Stated Scope)
本论证主要适用于**大型全球化复杂金融机构的管理**，以及**美国宏观经济政策的制定**。
> “我谈论比特币作为一种货币、价值尺度和支付机制……政府总有一天会摧毁它。”（明确将区块链技术与比特币作为货币的命运进行剥离，前者摩根大通大力支持，后者则予以否定）。

#### 5. 潜在对手 (Implicit Opponent)
*   **伪善的传统官僚**：那些用“客户第一”等空洞口号包装自己，却从不阅读客户投诉、用繁冗的PPT会议拖延决策、并在公司内部拉帮结派的管理者。
*   **技术乌托邦主义者**：盲目相信去中心化加密货币能够颠覆主权法币系统的信徒。
*   **极端党派政治家与偏见媒体**：在政策制定中陷入党派斗争（如盲目反对企业税改）、在舆论中对企业领袖进行道德绑架的群体。

#### 6. 预期效果 (Intended Takeaway)
读者（尤其是商学院学生和未来的商业领袖）应当：
1.  在管理中展现无情、彻底的坦诚，不粉饰太平；
2.  将个人精力管理视为自身责任，拒绝陷入“狂乱（Frenzied）”的工作状态；
3.  认识到金融服务处于资本主义的核心枢纽，应当通过务实合作（而非政治站队）来服务国家利益。

---

### PART 2. 针锋相对但客观公允的批判 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair REVIEW)

#### 1. 强力重塑 (Steelman)
戴蒙的核心主张是一种**务实的、以结果为导向的制度主义（Institutionalism）**。他认为，企业的卓越与国家的强盛不需要复杂的宏观理论，而需要对组织内耗（官僚主义、办公室政治、虚伪的公关）进行无情的清洗。通过建立绝对坦诚的沟通机制和以机构利益为核心的功绩制，组织能够实现极高的决策效率和风险控制。在国家层面，若能将这种务实、去意识形态化的商业逻辑应用于税收、基建和教育，国家竞争优势将得到最大化释放。

#### 2. 最弱环节 (Weakest Link)
戴蒙论证中最脆弱的支柱在于：**他将“官僚主义”完全归咎于领导者的无能或道德败坏，而选择性地忽略了在高度监管的系统性重要金融机构中，“官僚程序”实际上是防范系统性风险和满足合规要求的必然产物。**

> **原文支撑**：“预读材料开头写道：‘官僚主义是复杂业务在复杂全球环境中运行的必然条件和产物。’ 这完全不是真的，好吗？官僚主义会杀人，会驱逐优秀的人和创新。”

*   **致命性批判**：摩根大通作为一家每天移动6万亿美元、受全球数千项法规约束的系统重要性银行（G-SIB），其庞大的合规、审计和风险控制流程在戴蒙眼中常被简化为需要被“消灭”的官僚主义。如果这些“官僚程序”被过度简化或绕过，就会导致灾难性的合规漏洞。事实上，正是因为缺乏严格、规范的“官僚式”多重审批，才导致了“伦敦鲸”事件中交易员能够绕过风险委员会的监管。戴蒙一方面痛斥官僚主义，另一方面又在事件后加强了合规控制（这本身就是增加官僚流程），这在逻辑上是自相矛盾的。

#### 3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)
*   **对“伦敦鲸”巨亏的轻描淡写**：戴蒙将60亿美元的亏损称为“一个犯了错的对冲（a hedge that obviously didn't work）”，并抱怨政府20亿美元的罚款是“ outrageous（令人愤慨的）”，因为“没有涉及客户”。他刻意隐瞒了这一事实：该巨额头寸是由首席投资办公室（CIO）持有的，该部门本应负责保守地管理银行的超额准备金，而非进行高风险、高杠杆的自营投机。他将监管机构的惩罚定性为“因为他们有权这么做（because they can）”的政治迫害，忽略了该交易对金融系统稳定性的潜在威胁。
*   **“工作与生活平衡”的特权视角**：戴蒙宣称“如果你感到狂乱（Frenzied），那是你自己的问题，而不是工作的问题”，并用自己从不迟到、合理规划时间作为证据。这一论证忽略了权力结构的不对称。作为CEO，他拥有庞大的秘书团队、私人飞机和支配他人时间的绝对权力；而初级分析师和中层员工的“狂乱”往往是由戴蒙所推崇的“星期五下午布置任务、星期一早晨要结果”的投行文化（尽管他声称在限制，但该系统依然以此运行）强制施加的。

#### 4. 隐藏前提 (Hidden Premises)
*   **前提一：主权国家对去中心化网络拥有绝对的、不可挑战的压制能力。**
    *   *质问*：戴蒙预测政府必将“摧毁”比特币。然而，如果去中心化网络在跨国司法管辖权的灰色地带、或在法治崩溃的失败国家（如他提到的委内瑞拉）中展现出极强的抗审查生命力，且主权国家因技术或政治原因无法达成全球监管共识，这一“摧毁”前提是否依然成立？
*   **前提二：人才的“背景 dossier（档案）”可以完全脱离系统性偏见。**
    *   *质问*：戴蒙声称他不需要见一个人，只需通过一份包含其人际关系、诚信度、 peer 评价的“档案”就能完美评估一个人。这默认了该评估系统是客观中立的。然而，这些档案的撰写者本身是否就处于高度政治化和充满偏见的精英网络（如常春藤、斯坦福）之中？这是否只是在用数字化的方式固化“兄弟会”式的裙带关系？

#### 5. 认知盲区 (The Blind Side)
戴蒙的“爱国银行家（Patriot-Banker）”框架预设了**摩根大通的利益与美国公众利益的天然一致性**。他强烈主张放宽抵押贷款的“信用箱（Credit box）”限制，声称这将释放2万亿美元的贷款并刺激GDP，同时“不会改变银行的任何风险”。
这完全忽视了2008年次贷危机的教训：银行为了追求短期利润，在“扩大信用、服务弱势群体”的道德糖衣下，系统性地降低了承销标准。戴蒙作为最大金融机构的掌舵人，游说政府放松对其核心业务（抵押贷款和资本要求）的监管，这与他自称的“不为银行辩护、只为国家利益”的客观形象存在巨大的利益冲突。

#### 6. 一击必杀 (One Hit Kill)
> **致命一问**：戴蒙先生，如果您坚信“绝对的坦诚”和“消除内部政治”是摩根大通的基石，那么为什么在2012年，您最信任的首席投资官（CIO）和交易团队能够在一个本应受到严格监控的对冲账户中，瞒着您和风险委员会，持续数月建仓并隐瞒数五十亿美元的极度不可转让（illiquid）的投机头寸？这究竟是您个人的“坦诚沟通”失效了，还是您庞大帝国中根深蒂固的内部政治和瞒报文化欺骗了您？

#### 7. 如何盖棺定论 (What Would Settle It)
要验证戴蒙的“反官僚、去监管、纯功绩制”管理哲学是否优于传统的合规导向型管理，我们需要进行以下实证对比：
*   **实证测试**：对比在遭遇系统性金融危机（如2008年危机或2023年区域性银行危机）时，采用戴蒙式“灵活、反官僚、信任导向”风险管理模式的银行，与采用加拿大式“高度官僚、机械化合规、多重审批”保守模式的银行，两者的**风险调整后资本回报率（RAROC）**和**重大合规/交易损失事件的发生频率**。如果后者的损失率显著更低且长期回报更稳健，则证明戴蒙的“反官僚主义”叙事不过是一种在牛市中粉饰管理特权的意识形态。

---

### PART 3. 概念关联图 (Mermaid Conceptual Map)

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    subgraph SG_Core["💎 核心哲学 Core Philosophy"]
        A["戴蒙的管理与经济学帝国"]
        style A fill:#FFFACD,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:3px,color:#333,font-weight:bold
    end

    subgraph SG_Charity["🟢 戴蒙的自我论证 (Charitable View)"]
        direction TB
        S1_Truth["彻底的坦诚 (Candor)"]
        S1_AntiBur["无情消灭官僚主义 (Anti-Bureaucracy)"]
        S1_Merit["基于机构忠诚的功绩制 (Meritocracy)"]
        S1_Macro["务实爱国主义 & 税改基建"]
        S1_Crypto["区块链技术应用 (Blockchain)"]
        
        S1_Truth -- "消除" --> S1_AntiBur
        S1_AntiBur -- "激发" --> S1_Merit
        S1_Merit -- "支撑" --> S1_Macro
        S1_Crypto -- "提升" --> S1_AntiBur
    end

    subgraph SG_Hostile["🔴 针锋相对的批判 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review)"]
        direction TB
        HR_WeakLink["最薄弱环节: 官僚主义的合规必要性"]
        HR_Evidence["证据审计: 伦敦鲸定性为'犯错的对冲' & 逃避监管责任"]
        HR_Balance["特权盲区: 借口'个人效率'忽视投行阶级压迫"]
        HR_Crypto_Limit["隐藏前提: 假设主权国家对去中心化网络有绝对控制力"]
        HR_Conflict["盲区: 假借'爱国'游说放松抵押贷款监管 (利益冲突)"]
    end

    %% Wiring Core to both views
    A -- "正面逻辑阐述" --> S1_Truth
    A -- "反面穿透审计" --> HR_WeakLink

    %% Critical Connections (How the critique deconstructs the claims)
    S1_AntiBur -. "被此质疑: 绕过官僚程序导致伦敦鲸巨亏" .-> HR_WeakLink
    S1_Truth -. "被此质疑: CIO团队瞒报数月, 坦诚机制破产" .-> HR_Evidence
    S1_Merit -. "被此质疑: 依靠精英学校档案筛选, 强化阶级偏见" .-> HR_Balance
    S1_Macro -. "被此质疑: 游说降低抵押贷款承销标准, 埋下系统风险" .-> HR_Conflict
    S1_Crypto -. "被此质疑: 低估了去中心化网络的跨司法管辖抗审查性" .-> HR_Crypto_Limit

    %% --- Node Styles ---
    classDef mainClaim fill:#FFFACD,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:3px,color:#333
    classDef stageNode fill:#E0F7FA,stroke:#00ACC1,stroke-width:2px,color:#006064
    classDef reviewNode fill:#FFCDD2,stroke:#D32F2F,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#B71C1C
    classDef reviewDetailNode fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#EF9A9A,stroke-width:1px,color:#C62828

    class A mainClaim
    class S1_Truth,S1_AntiBur,S1_Merit,S1_Macro,S1_Crypto stageNode
    class HR_WeakLink,HR_Evidence,HR_Balance,HR_Crypto_Limit,HR_Conflict reviewNode

    %% --- Subgraph Background Styles ---
    style SG_Core fill:#FFFDE7,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#4B0082
    style SG_Charity fill:#F1F8E9,stroke:#689F38,stroke-width:2px,color:#33691E
    style SG_Hostile fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#EF5350,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#C62828
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
This is the third time you've come to talk to us, and I have to ask, are we just very lucky to have you, or is there some, perhaps some latent regret in choosing our competitor on the East Coast, if you're in business school? So my wife went to Harvard Business School, I went to Harvard Business School, my daughter went to Harvard Business School, and two son-in-law's went to Harvard Business School, but we love Stanford. I like to come out here all the time, and I come out here and realize why you don't work so hard out here. Now, speaking of business school, we have many people in the room who are trying to decide between entrepreneurship and more traditional paths on leaving. Do you mind talking to the decision you made on leaving Harvard yourself, and if you do the same thing today? So when I worked at a small, really second-rate consulting company before business go back, then they had this thing called Deferred Admit, so I admitted I had to work for two years, and I thought, you know, I did the consulting thing, you learned a lot, I also learned I didn't want to be a consultant. And I saw a whole bunch of different companies and industries and including badly run political, all these various things. So it was actually a very good experience. But when I got to Harvard Business School, I actually worked at Goldman Sachs the summer of 81. And I was headed back to Goldman, Morgan and Lehman. I was probably going to decide Goldman and the last minute Sandy Wilde offered me his job to be his assistant. He just sold Shearson, which is a broker's firm with a couple thousand brokers to American Express. And it just, it looked like it was just too good to not to see a large corporation for the inside, how it goes. My goal in life was to, you know, be part of an organization. It wasn't necessarily to be an investment banker or a trader or something like that. So I took the craption. I figured worse comes to worse, I can go back to Wall Street. So I didn't feel like, you know, I'm gonna lose anything but time. And I would, yes, I'd make the same decision again. Maybe enough of the same guy again, but the same decision. Now, standing while obviously saw something in you the time. When you meet men and women our age at JP Morgan today, what leadership characteristics are you looking for in them and how do you identify and bring those people through as the next generation? Well, when you're young, it's hard to say leadership characteristics, but there's just some basic stuff. Other people who know a lot, so there's some people walk into your office and say, yeah, I'd like to know about the strategy of the company and they didn't bother to read the chairman's letter that I wrote, which is like 30 or 40 pages long. There are people walk in and say, you know, you really should be thinking about doing better digital services, but they didn't look at the ones we do do. They're the other people walk in and they know everything. And so when they have a conversation, they're actually enhancing your life as opposed to the way around. So, you know, character is a sine qua non. And by character, I also mean that they tell the whole truth, nothing but the truth. They don't shave the truth and they say the same thing to you that they say to you. Because the second I see people doing something different than that, You just go on a list to me and I have no interest. I don't have time for that and I want to have interested in it so and people who are good, you know, relate well to people. So, so a variety of things. And I think when we look at financiers, often people concentrate on the competitive leadership characteristics they see that. At the GSB, we have a real focus on the collaborative. How do you see the balance between competitive and collaborative? Competitive inside a company? Inside and out. Well, look, I think the things that destroy companies, folks, or bureaucracy and politics. And we had an onsite this summer. I was asking it many times, we got to make this simpler. We got to make this better. We got to kill. Our meetings are too long. We stand behind regulations sometimes. The regulars make us do it. But I said, no, we're going to reimagine all these things, the way they should be, not the way they are today. And let's take a crack at killing some of these bureaucracies growing up recently. And so I wrote a memo for it, and we all do pre-reads. In my meetings, you don't flip through a chart. It's all pre-reads. I expect you to do your homework, get the analysis and part it up with people beforehand. So you don't walk in and say, well, I want to do A, B, and C but I haven't spoken to this person yet. I would say, why do you speak to this person? The mean is canceled. Go do that first and then come back with a joint recommendation or that you disagree and then we'll talk about specifically why you disagree about something. Anyway, I'd ask about bureaucracy. The pre-reached start by saying bureaucracy is an extra condition and output of complex businesses, operating complex global environments. It's just not true, okay? bureaucracy kills, bureaucracy drives out good people, drives out innovation. It makes the person who office next to you a competitor and not a collaborator. And that's a really bad idea inside a company. Now, it's okay to compete with ideas, but it's a really bad idea where you're competing with the person next to you. It creates politics, and if you look at what's killed companies over the years, it was bureaucracy. And if you look at the Fortune 500, and you did it in 1915, 1916, 1970, 1990, look at the companies who failed, it was because they were dumb, bureaucratic, backward, and political. And CEO should never allow that stuff. And yet they do. I mean, it's a normal course, they allow it, and you've seen a lot of public companies and boards allow, boards can create it, by the way, so yeah, absolute collaboration, but collaboration does not mean everyone has to agree. Collaboration does not mean you go along to get along, because that's very awful if you don't mean by it. You know, he's a good guy, and basically, you know, if you walk into me and say, I'm I'm gonna be loyal to you. I would question what that means because you should be loyal to the institution. You should be loyal to the customers. You can be loyal to the principles for which I stand, but being loyal to me usually means you can defend my decision whether or not you agree. And I just think it's a mistake. You're well known for having a very candid and open forthright style of communication. It's appreciated by Warren Buffett who says he loves your chairman letters and we obviously appreciate it here. What was it that led you to develop the style of communication early on? Well, I'm one of those who, I don't think I've changed much since I've been eight. And, you know, when I got to, when I got to Harvard Business School, somebody advised I got when I was graduating, was, whatever you do, Jamie, don't go into corporate America, you won't survive. And obviously, and by the, there was truth to that, you know, I was a little too outspoken and, you know, for some corporations, et cetera, and, you know, part of it was Warren Buffett. So I read, when I was in high school or college, I actually read his partnership letters. And he would say, I'll speak to you as if you're my smart sister who doesn't know everything I know. So I have to go out of my way to explain it to you. And you know, business is not that complicated, we should be able to explain it. So I always felt exactly the same way. I always felt as a matter of principle inside a company, if I allow spinning to the public, you are going to spin to me. And think of earnings, numbers, how great we're doing, and we're not. And so I say the same thing to you that I say to my board, they say to my shearhold, they I say to my employee, they say to my customer, there is no difference. I might phrase it differently, because you're talking to different group people, you're trying to explain yourself, but there is no difference. And that clarity, I think, helps a company, no, we're just trying to accomplish all the time, and when I read annual letters, and it's all gobbly-gook in the letter, my respect for the company drops a little bit. And then you got to be very specific, because we can also say, well, the customer is the most important thing, and the customer, the customer, but you know what it should mean? It should mean something specific. like, do you actually read customer complaints? And then do you do something about it? As opposed to, we put the customer first. A lot of people say that and they don't mean it in any way, shape or form, that you know actions that would actually support the statement. So this one, I'm a friend, I'm gonna try and sneak in some more career advice. I think everyone here is aware that tech is extremely sexy right now. What do you think is the opportunity? A little bit less so today. I'll say today. What do you think is the opportunity in a career and finance that someone with the audience maybe on seeing. So, first of all, one thing about tech is driven, I don't think it's different than it was before, it's driven change throughout all of history, and all various forms of technology from the actual chips to internet, but also printing energy, institutions, schools, the churches, the dissemination of morality. That's always changed society, and it's always at the root, it's at the root of changes and businesses as the root of changes in what companies do well and what companies don't do well. So it is absolutely critical. I personally at Silicon Valley kind of got a free ride with Obama and the White House. You know, they panned it. You panned it to him and he panned it to you. And now you're seeing a little flip side of that. So the big company, the successful one is going to find out which I've known a long time. The big you are, the more the government is going to get inside what you do and want to impose you on you and set rules and standards. And sometimes for good, sometimes not for good, but so financial services, so I think technology is an absolutely wonderful thing. But financial services, first of all, we are a huge user technology. We spend $9 billion a year. So we're not at the bleeding edge, but we're damn close. In terms of what we spend money on, what we do, or our data centers, our capabilities, our mobile, digital, moving, we move $6 trillion around the world every day, digitally, not cryptocurrency, but close to it because it's digital. You know, and we bang 50 million people on our households and assume we're going to have online built, I mean, online investing and robo investing, all these various things to link into our accounts. So we are huge users of that kind of stuff. We also obviously use the advertising of Facebook and Google, et cetera. But financial services is always going to be an interesting business because it's not the most important business, but it is at the nexus of how a capital society functions. It's part of the spin wheel. And when I say financial service, I'm talking about all of it, private equity, venture capital, activists, whether you like them or not, banks, non-banks, individual investors, a lot of companies that do things individually that help change the world a little bit. But that, it's always going to be this field where money gets invested, ideas come together, things get executed, capital gets executed globally. So it's always fascinating, it'll always be well paid, whatever, you know, some of these folks say in DC, it has to be well paid, but you can't do it, you know, with dumb people bold, making dumb decisions, if you're thinking to actually run a good economy or something like that, it'll always be a high tech user, and it'll always be complex and global, by its nature. And so it's a fascinating business. When you wake up in the morning, but when I read the paper, there's very little in the paper that I'm not reading, thinking about, it affects our clients, it affects our companies, it affects our risk, it affects our exposure, we should be doing something about it. Like just any article, because we do business in well over 100 countries, and just but every country and every something. Well fun, so it's a fascinating field. I mean, when you get into it, there are all different parts to it. You've got to decide how you want to, if you want to get into how you want to get into that. One of the things we set up which I really like is we hired top-notch people for investment banking and sales and trading. So we go to the best schools in the world, we hire some of the best people, we now do the same thing for general management, about eight or nine to 10 a year, because we need people who can run the dam joint too. And I want the same quality, And we move around the company, kind of keep an eye in them. And you know, but the point is they want to be global, they want to move around, and they want to learn how to manage and run something. So the same kind of compensation to investment bank or the same openness to senior people so that we can get that. And not that if you're investment bank you can't move into management, or you know, sales and trading, but this is really people who want to do more management for financial services. So you mentioned the cryptocurrency. I know you said you weren't gonna talk about Bitcoin anymore, but you're at Stanford. Some of us people lost student loan money into it. And I have to ask you anyway, why do you believe that governments and regulators can't allow the existence of a global currency based on some sort of culture? I feel like a spokesman against Bitcoin. I don't care about Bitcoin. I could give a shit to tell you the truth. And I promise myself I wouldn't talk about it the next day. There are four things really quickly. Black chain is real, it's technology. It could be public or private. It could be for five people. It could be for five million. It's going to work. Will you already use it in a lot of test cases, stuff like that, so we're a supporter. I do worry a little bit about the security, because like I said, we moved $6 trillion a day, real time, quite efficiently, effectively, and secure. Before you replace that, you've got to make sure you can do it right. There are three cryptocurrencies, three types, three separate types. One is ICOs. ICO, and I haven't studied these things, but you're paying for a token that allows you to use a service, which is very different than a currency, But that's what people call crypto currencies. And maybe Jim, maybe you've studied some of his eyeshows. I have no idea about someone give you cloud services or something to give you investing services. That's one type. The second type, you can use cryptocurrency for fiat currency. Well, that works because it's just used a different technology to move money around. We don't basically keep your money digitally anyway. And if you just keep different files in a different way and distributed ledgers, that would work fine. But I've always spoken about Bitcoin as a currency and a store of value and a payment mechanism is that governments, and this is my belief, and I may be wrong, I'm not saying you can't go to $100,000, that governments are going to crush it one day for three reasons, okay? One is when it's used for terrorist activities, okay? It'll happen, it's matter of time, go back to a Bitcoin, and then all of a sudden, the DOJ, the United States government, all these people in Washington who profess to love technology and novelty of Bitcoin are gonna change their mind. Number two, when a lot of little ladies lose their money, because the speculative vehicle was allowed to exist by the United States government, and they're going to lose their money, and they're going to be pounding. You should have done something about it. And number three is the most important government, whenever a government forms itself, and you go to any country in the world, pull out the currency, look at the date, that fiat currency was formed by that government with the central bank, because governments like to control their currency. Like to know who has it, where it's going, why it's going, when it went, et cetera. And right now, bitcoins are novelty. It's $100 billion, and $1 billion a day trades hands. Obviously, mostly speculation. And obviously, there's a real use case. I'm not making this a joke. Venezuela, Cuba, North Korea, criminal, drug money. That'll always be true. So I'll always have a use case that's valuable to someone because it's better in those countries to do some, to have that and have that currency or money in a bank because the government's, they take that too. If you go to Argentina, they had to effectively save the accounts. The government just went in and took it. They just took it. And you know, of course, everyone took the money I have to bank around to that. And the country basically collapsed. So that's the reason why. And it's going to get bigger and bigger and they're going to want to control it. And it's not the same as a fear of currency. A fear of currency, the government says, you must take this as legal tender. And at par, effectively, cash. At par. And it's always worth par. And I don't know why a crypto dollar would ever be something that a store value would be worse than a crypto Bitcoin. So that's my view. And I may be wrong in which I doubt. But I've been wrong before, though. And if I'm wrong, I also don't care very much. It'll never affect my life. It's not because the bankers are defending their stuff. That's absolutely untrue. Bitcoin works, and we have to do some Bitcoin. We'll do that to them. kind of a win-win there. JP Morgan's a big investor in blockchain technology, as distinct from Bitcoin. What do you think the most interesting applications of blockchain are going to be in the final? So blockchain, think of it as it's not like a faster chip or the NVIDIA GPUs and stuff like that. Because when you get certain technologies, they just filter through the whole system. And they allow you to do things differently everywhere, like just more database and more reading different natural language processing. You basically have the right code to have a use case for Bitcoin. So think of it as it'll be deployed, use case by use case. We're using it to move money inside the bank. Something like 30% or 40% of the $6 trillion we move is just between JP Morgan Chase accounts. I saw Mary here, you know, from General Motors to one of your vendors, and we have both the accounts. We just move between our own accounts, you know, basically, loans, you know, a loan document, do a trade, all the paperwork, all the details, all the cementation, all the covenants, and all that can be kept in a place where you all have the same files, all kept up the day. You know who owns, you know who doesn't own it. So that'll be one. Equity trading? I don't know. The Bitcoin takes 10 minutes to finish. We do thousands and thousands of trades, split seconds' equities. So it may be too late to use for equity trade. It may be okay for end-of-day settlement stuff, so this I'll just use case by use case. You can go through one by one and say, we're here, it may not work there. But again, you've got to kind of write the code. Effectively rewrite the code. So we're going to move from one hot topic to another. You were part of President Trump's business advisory board. Should it have been disbanded? And where is that dialogue with the administration and our taking place? Yeah, so I joined the council. Just keep in mind, so when I joined the council, the president asked, you know, Steve Schwarzman called up actually, and so the president would like you to join this council. I am a patriot. I love the United States of America, OK? And it's very, you want to help your country. And I still, I'm going to help my country. So help me, God. That's what I'm going to do, whether or not you all like President Trump. And remember, we help presidents and prime ministers all around the world. I see them. We advise them. We give them this. And we want to help the people of that country too. And that is part of your job, as a bank and as an individual, to try to help make the world a better place. I joined the council. I did get one very long, well-written, elegant, nasty letter from my daughter, basically, basically, how could you, dad? And my other two daughters were right to the point, Ditto. And my wife told me how many of her friends she had explained it to. Remember, these were all liberal, a feat New Yorkers, in my opinion. I said, I'm a patriot. Doesn't mean I agree with everything the man says, or the way the man is himself. It's about trying to help the United States of America. The council met twice. So think of these councils. The truth is, they aren't particularly effective. I was at one. I don't know if Mary was at the second meeting. And I think the second was a lot like the first. You know, you talk about the infrastructure. You talk about this. And the president is like, that's ridiculous. We get better at this. All true. But at one point, that work's got to be done in detail in the agencies. Not by a bunch of COC in around the table telling you that it takes too long to build a bridge and this regulation hurts. And we need this in capital markets. So the effectiveness comes down over time. And then after Charlottesville was the last draw, but the negatives were going up. Most of us really believe in diversity, LGBT, DACA programs were pro-immigrant, where we certainly wouldn't justify any way shape of form, not seism or white supremacy or stuff like that. So we found ourselves having to explain to our own people by the way, because the press was always calling me up saying, there's just say something. I don't remember the press calling me up and saying I have to go public every time I distributed some Obama did. So the press really is extremely biased. And they're going to have to do something about it. Not all, I mean, they're all biased in their own way. But you know, I haven't explained it constantly over and over. It was just a negative. We had a conference call. Steve Schwarzman was the chairman. He ran it. We went alphabetically. Everyone on the conference call said, it's just disbanded. There were two who said don't, having to see the tables, a good thing, et cetera, et cetera. And we just banded it. Of course, Schwarzman told the president and the thing that came out was that the president agreed to disband it, you know, which It wasn't exactly the case, but everyone in that room is still working with the people they should be working with to help the United States government do proper things. They need help. If you just think somehow the decision is gonna be a property in Washington without the help of business, they won't. And so we're all doing in our own way and obviously I deal out with Manuchin and Kohn and other people deal with the other agencies et cetera, but it's incumbent upon you try to help. And just because you don't like a president is a really bad idea. I think we've become far too knee-jerk in our politics and to me, you should be willing to help. Your name was thrown around a lot as a potential Secretary of Treasury that didn't happen, but say you wake up tomorrow as the Secretary. What does tax reform or economic policy look like under Secretary Diamond? Yeah, so I don't want to be Secretary of Treasury. But we have, I tell people this is important. country has the best hand ever dealt with any country in the planet and most people don't fully understand it because they never make the list. So I always say we have a problem, make a list and go through what really matters and I'm going to do this quickly. We have all the food, water, and energy we need. We have the Atlantic and the Pacific, which our founding fathers realized how powerful they are to defend this country from wars in Asia, wars in Europe. We have the best military the world ever seen. That's going to be true for a long period of time and I say compared to China but do it respectfully. China does not having a food-borne energy, and its neighbors happened to be Philippines, Japan, North Korea, South Korea, Indonesia, Vietnam, Pakistan, Afghanistan, India, and Russia. And they've had border skirmishes or wars with like five or six of those in the last 40 years. They are in a tough part of the world. So those leadership, they're saying, God, we need food. We need access to certain commodities. We have to have an army just to protect ourselves from the billions of people that surround them that are not necessarily that happy with them. So, the United States also has, and I got to a business school at too much, Japan, Japan, Japan, Japan, Japan, and now then it was BRICS, Brazil, Russia, India, China, and it was Mexico in the midst, Mexico in Indonesia, South Africa, Turkey, but none of them have what I'm about to say, the universities we do, the rule of law like we do, low corruption like we do, the widest, deepest, most transparent, financial markets, the world's ever seen, public and private. Again, I'm not talking about banks here, okay? And a hugely vibrant business is small to large. And innovation like the world's never seen. And I'm not talking about just Silicon Valley. I'm talking about you go to any company in America and believe me, they're getting productivity up 2% somewhere. And we, not, does Brazil have that? India, China? Does most European countries have that whole list? Does Mexico have it? So people don't, that's the best hand. But something went wrong. And I do think we left behind a huge segment of society. 10 million people left the workforce, which I think they're starting to come back in. 20 million people are felons, of which a larger amount shouldn't be felons. I tell people, if you were all caught doing something that shit you did, you'd be a felon too. And you can't get a job after that. Or at least most companies, you're not going to get a job even more by law for most of the jobs we, by regulatory rules and requirements. We have the opioid crisis, we have, we did, There are some, I think we blame trade and immigration technology, but that's not really the reason, but we have some of these rust belt towns who left behind our inner city school kids, 50% don't graduate, okay? And most you didn't go to inner city school, but 50% don't graduate. They're mostly poor, the mostly minorities in this land of opportunity. There are six million open jobs today. Good jobs that you can get at a high school, welding, construction, electrical, coding, Automotive, they're automobiles everywhere, aviation, and we're not training the kids. And so that's why, and that's also why I took on the chair of the business roundtable. So the question I always have is how do you fix that stuff? And in reality, I think the fix is actually known. I think the hard part is getting through Congress. But competitive tax reform has to be done. We, and it shocks me that my Democratic friends, and they say, are you going to change wages on day one of the corporate tax reform? That's their measure. What happened last time? That's their measure. The measure you should have is the counterfactual. Had you had competitive tax system 10 years ago, there would have probably been $3 trillion retained here. Companies and capital. 5,000 companies have been bought by foreign companies because it's advantageous for them to own an American company now. So while our government do it all on these inversions, 5,000 companies were acquired by foreign companies. Net, there's a study came up by E&Y, that would have been retained here. think of corporate headquarters and you know we damaged ourselves and it's permanent and that four trillion overseas and it's four trillion someone's been reinvesting hard you know hard equipment and plant and companies but there's still two and a half trillion in cash that's why it's there that's not because these companies are immoral it's because it's so much more advantageous do stuff over there Microsoft built a research center in Vancouver because they can't hire the same kids in Seattle because of our immigration laws and so you know So these things are held back in America, and I am absolutely convinced, and it's hard to prove it because you can't put a model, we're going to 2% in spite of the dumb things governments done for 10 years. And had we done the right things on competitive taxes, infrastructure, education, we'd be growing to 3% or more. This recovery, the growth is half of a normal recovery. A small business formation is, we're down millions of small companies that normally would have been formed and the reason is lack of access to credit regulations. And again, I can't prove it. I'm trying. I'm using a big data, but now I'm trying to get some stuff looking backwards. And that's what, so the part of the agenda of the Trump administration is the right stuff. Infrastructure, education, competitive tax reform, proper regulation. And I just say proper as opposed to less or more. They, they, they master or did it. You've heard people say that it didn't hold back lending, okay? And we did, and this was real analysis, and done by economists, not by me, mortgages alone, we believe are held back by one to two trillion dollars because of the cost, lack of securitization, lack of servicing requirements, and because of litigation and stuff around it, that people are mostly, the mortgage under rise, unwilling to make mortgages to first time buyers, young people, immigrants, prior to false and self-employed. Not going back to the subprime of the old age, just opening up the credit box a little bit. Two trillion dollars in mortgages would have been probably five percent growth in GDP. That one thing. And yet they said it didn't hold back lending. And by that would have not changed any risk at all for banks. We don't, for the most part, we don't keep that stuff. And it wouldn't have changed the risk for the government, or the, actually, I think the risk is lower when the economy is stronger. And so that's why, that's what they should be doing. I think they are just going to do some of that stuff, I hope. On your management, JP Morgan's gone from strength to strength, but one instance stands out as a negative during your tenure, so in 2012, a London-based trader lost over $6 billion for the bank. Are there any lessons for us all in how you dealt with that incident, and do you wish you'd done anything differently? You know, here's an example. I mean, this is what our countries come to, okay? We had a record profit that year. We're a big company, hugely embarrassed, and I'll tell you about that mistake in a second. No customers were involved, okay? It was originally pronounced as a hedge that obviously didn't work, okay? And yet we were punished severely in Congress, $2 billion of fines. I mean, it's outrageous. It's just outrageous that a company makes a mistake. My show's got hurt by 6 billion, I hurt my shows, I apologize to my shows, and the government finds me 2 billion in addition to that because they can. Because they said it's another example of a bank being mismanaged, etc. Well, shit happens and it was, it was we had put on a hedge that was supposed to earn a lot of money in a recession and basically break even a normal thing and lose money in a booming environment. I think as we were short high yields and long investments like that and it wasn't the complex derivatives that mattered because the fact is that wasn't the mistake. The mistake was when we put this thing on I thought, and again I blame myself and I went public right away, big mistake, 2 billion, could be a lot worse, bad strategy, belly vetted, belly monitored, belly done, my fault, I'm sorry, we're going to fix it, you know, and the details in some ways didn't matter, but it was hugely liquid in this typical thing in trading, by the way. When we had asked them to reduce the positions I had asked, I had looked at some very simple numbers of risk-weight assets. I should have asked a couple more questions. They couldn't do it. So instead of like reducing in half and saying, we have a problem. But if they said at that point in time, we would have lost 500 million. You probably wouldn't even know about it. But instead of that, they kind of doubled down. They try to come these ol' cock and made me waste to reduce the risk. But they just added more and more liquid positions on top of other liquid positions. And when you try to unwind that thing, that's how you get killed. And so, but the lesson, there was no less than to me. I knew the second it happened. I've seen it before. I got the whole management team, again, all the PRP. I said, guys, they're going to come after us. They're going to say Jake was like everybody else. Big banks are too big to manage. Jamie Dimon's a failure, just like these other guys. He's the office highly holy horse. Dimon's do break. Dimon in the rough. I wrote all the headlines. I said forget all of that stuff. We hear to serve companies, serve clients. We're going to do our jobs. And hopefully the attack by the, when something like that happens, and a lot of you have been through this, that is a letter to every AG, to every newspaper, to every senator, to every congressman. And they'll attack, like literally, like a bunch of barking hyenas. And yet we all look at it like that's okay, but it's not okay. It's not the way professionals, people should act when companies have problems and stuff like that. So the fact is there was no great lesson learned other than for all of you, whenever you have a problem, and I'd say now Zuckerberg's got one, that's what he's gonna deal with. I don't not sure he completely understands that. Every AG, every senator, every congressman, they'll turn immediately, they'll go in the attack, they'll take advantage of it. I'm surprised I don't talk about finding them billions of dollars yet. And so, you know, and that's what society is. You just have to learn how to deal with that stuff. So, and the biggest risk of all, the risk commits, we obviously bear risk all around the world. That risk committee, which was meeting, how are senior risk officers, right? When I asked, what about this trade? They said, oh no, that trade was done pretty much between the bunch of those traders who were doing it And I and the droopers are CIO, who I respect. They didn't want to share the risk committee. That should never happen. Ever, ever, ever. If you get our risk committee to see everything, my general counsel sees everything, my head of compliance, he's everything. Once someone ever says, well, that we're going to do over here, you've got a problem. And that tends to create an issue that will come back and hurt you. To explore leadership in tough situations, some more the Harvey Weinstein stories very much on people's minds at the moment. As a leader, what do you feel is your role to play and creating a work culture that's very respectful of women. Well, I think it is your role to do that. And, you know, and someone said to me, I've got a hard way to say so. This, you know, Wall Street's been that way. Wall Street's not that way today, folks. Not like that stuff. I mean, I'm sure that maybe her husband somewhere in JP Morgan, but if you think it's condoned by anyone at the company and senior position, absolutely not, okay? And we've got, you know, strict processes in place to look at what people do and how they do it and review it and have involved me in any way, shape, or form, and go directly to a separate board thing. It wouldn't be like, I can go negotiate a cell in my own or something like that. So the first thing to diversity, and I think it's more important than anything else, is that every other company is treated with trust and respect, any meeting you walk in, you feel like you're welcome, anyone can speak up. It's not a guy's, and you see the subtle guys thing. I've seen this, a senior banker once told me, Jamie watched this man who runs a big part of the company, walked into the partner's room, and he'll walk up to you, hey buddy, how's that football game? Hey man, why would you score in golf? And he wouldn't even talk to the women in the room. You know, if you're managing a group of people, and I saw you do that, you'd get a earful from me. You've got to talk to everyone. You can like some people more than others, but you've got to talk to everyone. And you have to go out of your way to get the quiet person, the reserved person, the person who doesn't want to be embarrassed to get them to speak up and feel comfortable. And when you have an environment of trust and respect, people can shine, okay? Now you should have specialized programs and all that and I'm for those, but they don't work if you don't create that environment, doesn't matter. And you know, you know, just like you would advise, my three, I have three daughters, if they were in a terrible environment, I'm a leave. Go find a place that appreciates your skills, you know? And so it will hurt a company, ultimately because, you know, if I get to pick my team from all people, not just white men, I would pick a far better team. I should point out that Jay Morgan Chase, I, again, the press doesn't write this, half of my direct reports are women. Did you hear what I just said? Every article, even in the Wall Street Journal, is always saying it'll be 30 years before women represent 30% of the executive suite on Wall Street, 50%, including the head of tech now, Laurie Beer, who's been doing a great job, he's been doing a couple of months, and 20% of my direct reports, LGBT, because they're good. And 30% of all the top 200 people in the company women. And they run major parts of the company, credit card, private banking, global equity, capital markets. An Indian woman is ahead of US M&A. And that was the most macho, belt and suspenders, smoking cigar in the back room of all the jobs. And her father didn't even want her to go to school at college. She's actually from India. She's not just Indian and so yeah I think if you do it right you'll have a great environment for everybody and you got to have your eyes open to it you know what I always worry about is not is you know we have 5,000 branches and I just always know that in that branch that guy or woman but most of your guy will come be a bully and get away with it because we can't see it and no matter what we say the people in that branch feel behold they need their job and they put up with it like another one you shouldn't allow. Like, and if you've been, I've sure you've been a commiser. You should never allow, and it came to my attention, you were not allowed to have a golf event and invite the men in the division and not the women. It's not allowed. I mean, my first inclination would be to fire someone on the spot if I heard about that. I just, just, what, and don't have golf, do something different, you know, and, you know, go out of your way to make everyone feel accepted and you'll build a great company. One question we often ask female CEOs here is how they manage work life balance. We rarely ask male CEOs, but I've heard a story that you want certain to quit your first job because a partner forced you to work over the weekend unnecessarily. We're not suggesting that JPMorgan investment bank analysts stop doing the same. But do you have any tips for us on structuring our time balancing the demands made by us? Anyway, when I was an analyst at this consulting company, this consultant has said, you got to do this work. I needed Monday morning nine o'clock. He gave it to Simon Friday, which is what all the people in Wall Street complain about. The kids are right. The MDs, they come in, partners, and they're not thinking about to fry, and then fries, I need this, I need a Monday, which means you got to work all weekend. And most of the time, you could have gotten the assignment on Tuesday. And so we've actually tried to institute some policies that you can't give people assignments on Friday, basically, any more unless it's approved by so-and-senior. But I worked all weekend, and then I showed up at nine o'clock, and I was in the library basically doing research and stuff like that. And he wasn't there. And he called in at 12 o'clock, and one o'clock he said, Robin, I worked all weekend. You said nine o'clock. It was critical. He said, I didn't really need it until tomorrow. I just want to make sure you've got it done, to which I was, and I told him, I'll never work for you again. No, but this is not advice, okay? My advice would be, a temper is not a good thing. But I, and they said, well, you can't tell the consulate from where you're going to work for. I said, yes, I can, because they can fire me. I was quite serious, I never worked for the person again. And I think that was a bullied thing, you know, just, that was my instinct, that was just bullying me and it was completely unnecessary. And he knew me well enough to know that I was gonna get done when I told him I would get done and stuff like that. You couldn't have work-life balance. I tell people, JB Moore and Chase, it is your job to take your mind, your body, your spirit, your soul, your friends, your family, your health. Your job, it's not our job. So I think there's a little bit of misunderstanding that some of the companies, now we should do everything we can to help you. Now, I tell people, we give you medical, shrinks, Pilates, massages. I mean, we really do try to take care of our people, but I can't make up for you not doing those other things and you really have to do it yourself. Most people don't work very smart, so first of all, it works smart. Now I deal with emails and phone calls generally once. Okay, I have three types of reading. Very fast, fast, very slow. And so, you know, the very slow is the complex, I really need to think about, the very fast might be a magazine. I just want to see if they're interested in there or something like that and, you know, people don't run their lives efficiently And I'm sure you've seen even in school here, you know, the people of frenzied, they're always frenzied. They're late, they can't get back. Starting to get back, I couldn't get it done. I got my cases, I couldn't do this. If you're frenzied, it's you. It's not the school, it's not the job, it's you, because a lot of us aren't frenzied. I'm never late, almost never late. I'm not frenzied. I have a nice lawplist. I know exactly what people are doing. I schedule time, you know, for myself to exercise and for, you know, making my phone calls. And if I didn't do it this morning, I'd be a little, I would feel harried if I wasn't all caught up, you know. And so work really smart, learn how to work smart. And then, in parts of your life, I think it's really difficult when you have children. That does burn the camera both ends. My advice to men is you better drop watching every football game and playing golf on both Saturday and Sunday. You know, do some of your kids. And if you don't, it's neglect. Okay, you call it whatever you want, but I have a lot of reasons to complain about. They couldn't, they have enough family time, But they go play golf in Saturday's Sunday. I'm playing golf in Saturday's Sunday means you wake up at seven or eight. You go play golf for three hours. You have lunch. Use your bloody Mary. You go home and take a nap. Okay, and you go to dinner with friends. You know, you should have done some of your family. And so, so you can do it. If you're a woman, I think it's even harder. You know, and I think there's some jobs that are really conducive to helping you and some aren't. You know, and you gotta think that through a little bit and one of the greatest beats I've ever saw a woman give was you can have it all, you just can't have it all at the same time. and just be a little thoughtful how you manage your life. That could be a man who's got to stay home to take care of kids or sick parents or something like that. And so it's a long race, and you can pretty much do it all. But you got to make sure you save time for yourself to do those things. And even the toughest job you can do that. Jamie, in 2014, you continued to actively lead JP Morgan despite battling and defeating Throat Cancer. Many people were incredibly impressed by your decision to stay at the helm of the company during that time. What continues to motivate you under those circumstances? Well, members, not up to me to stand down with the company. You're never quite over with cancer either. So I first, I had to go public with it. I wasn't my preference, but I couldn't be seeing walking in out of a Sloan Catering. And of course, I was going to lose weight. I didn't lose my hair, but I could have, and all that. So I just went completely clean. I did go to work almost every day. But that does not mean I worked every day. I mean, I was taking four or five naps. I lost like 40 pounds, and I didn't I don't want to get close to anyone because your immune system is virtually gone. So I didn't want to even get a cold at that point. But you know, people say, why do you, I was sitting home and I go, I go get my treatment every morning radiation and I go home. I would try to exercise. I went from running five miles to walking five to like literally walking for a minute, going on the floor so I was going to pass out, walking a minute, but it made me feel better to put the same amount in the gym. And then I go, but if I stayed at home, you know what I was doing? I couldn't read. I thought I could read it eight hours a day. I just couldn't do it. But I would stay at home. I was watching ISIS and Ebola. And when I go to the office, I'm surrounded by friends and interesting things. And you catch your mind, oh, I had some meetings. And so it just was better for me. And the board was fully beeped the whole time. And I had an unbelievable management team. And they were great. And my family was great. And so it was in some ways a heartwarming experience other than the fact that it's terrifying. Jimmy, thank you so much. and I will turn it over to the audience for Q&A. Thank you so much for being here, Mr. Diamond. At what level do you think Bitcoin has to get to before JP Morgan would embrace it? And at what level of demand, you said there is a level and I'm wondering what that would be as we look today at the price of $7,000. I doubt we're going to embrace it at any price. So I mean, to me, I'm worried about being caught up in this melstrom of people losing money and stuff like that. There's no reason for us to do anything with Bitcoin. Now, if you're a client and you want to get traded on the CME or something like that, I advise you not to do it. But should we do it and put in trades for a client who asks us to, is sophisticated, and obviously not bright, but sophisticated, maybe, I don't know. I mean, I told the senior team, I don't tell them what to do. I told them, because I sent a note to Daniel Pinto Runs. I said, Daniel, I know you heard what I said. It's your job to figure out what to do. And if you disagree with me, that's completely fine. I'll probably do whatever he wants. In spite of what I said. Hello. Hi, thanks for coming. One thing I'm punit, I'm a second year MBA. A couple of things you said that were quite interesting, where there's no lesson to be learned, and I don't care if I'm wrong. And I guess from a lot of senior leaders, I've noticed that self-awareness and learning from mistakes are key characteristics. Do you agree, and if so, do you have an example of a time when you've actually tried to build those? So I did mention the mistakes I made. I should have asked some more questions. There was one question I would have known. Just one. It was the one when I said it was a Tempest and Teapot. I had asked the question, I got the wrong answer. It was how liquid are the positions? How many days can you get out? I was told 10. Yeah, it was like hundreds. And the second I heard that, I said, oh shit, we have a real problem. So you learned, and I actually wrote about my chairman's lever. I said lessons learned or re-learned. I knew that. So sometimes you learn the same lessons over and over and it's like being in the boxing ring and say duck, you know, hold your hands up Yeah, well, that's harder to do than you think but So you do learn you do get better as you get older and management and people and decision-making But the I'll tell you what the biggest mistakes they made are they're not the specific one like the London Whale But but more the patterns around it tempers a bad idea Any decision man at a temper even treating people with temper you And they're going to be careful why you walk in, what's mood is in, and stuff like that. You don't get the best out of people. And sometimes, really, my life people said, well, it was a well-placed blow of anger. No, it wasn't. It was just a well-in-up of anger. And you usually clouded your judgment as opposed to, so I knew I had finally matured when about ten years ago, someone sitting in front of me talking about something about investment of anger comp. And I was getting so mad. And I said, you know what? I'm gonna leave the room. You guys stay here for 10 minutes. I'm gonna come back. I went out, I thought about what made me mad. I came back, I told them very politely, how offensive what they were saying was to me, et cetera, et cetera. But other mistakes, when you don't get the right people involved, plain and simple. A lot of answers, sometimes the answers are way to be found. You just gotta get the people in the room working. Making decisions when you're tired, making decisions on Friday, not 30 vetting people, the biggest mistakes to make a people mistakes and I've made plenty, the people mistakes really set back an organization. Because it takes a long time to figure it out and a lot of damage is good done, then you have to replace them. So it's like a year and a half. The person mistakes a year and a half of saying the company back. And you may lose good people in the meantime because when you put a person at a job, they often drive out some other good people by the time you figure out you made a mistake. And you can avoid that because I don't know your name, but I can get the whole book on you and never meet you. Okay, I can find out how smart you are, how you treat people, how you treat your friends, versus peer subordinates, whether you're on time, whether you show up, whether people trust you, whether you shave the truth. I can get that whole dossier on you. So we're pretty good now, making sure we put people in these big jobs that we know they're pretty good. We still can make a mistake, but you'd be surprised the error rate is just dramatically less than ever was before. Hello. Hi. I'm a 2018 Sloan Fellow. I was working for JP Morgan in London up until March of this year. And I'm just wondering where do you see the future of European financial services and particularly JP Morgan in the context of Brexit. So Brexit, I mean, the fact is, we're going to be prepared for hard Brexit, not because we're predicting it, so I think it is pretty likely at this point. I think it's a very complex thing. It's not great for Britain. But the fact is, to be prepared, all we have to do is have our European subsidiaries get more capital, certain licenses, certain approvals, which we're going to get. So if you have the hard Brexit, it defaults the next day to existing EU law. Under existing EU law, we simply have to do certain things contractually in a sovereign entity that's in the EU. And we have them. We've got licenses, proper sub-series and in Germany, Ireland, Brussels. It's only about 400, 500 jobs. So it's not that big a deal, but in reality, 12,000 people are servicing Europe out of London, even after a hard Brexit. And the real issue is what happens to those 12,000 in the 10 years after. Because I know it's gonna happen. Regulators and politicians are gonna walk in and say, we're uncomfortable. We know you did the license and you booked the trade in the subsidiary, but then you back-to-back that that subsidiary to risk-manage it, where you had the banker do the ECM deal here, but the research, risk, compliance, audit, trading was all done in London, and that's not sufficient. We don't want a Potemkin-village type of business. You gotta move it here. I think there's gonna be huge pressure move those 12,000 people over time into the EU. And my goal is to make sure we can serve our clients nonstop. It'll cost us more money. It's a real pain in the ass, but that's not the point. I'm not worried about. I want to be able to serve those European clients. We bank every European country just about every big European institution, every big European investor. That's what I got to worry about, being prepared to do that on the next day. Thank you. This is a continuation of what you're talking about. But what areas of the bank do you see most exposed to technology disruption and you mentioned sales and trading before? Yeah, so I, first of all, like I said, technology has been changing the world forever. And so it's not like it's completely different. I think it's faster now. More money is going into Fintech, you know, agile technology can do things that couldn't be done before. And I think it's incumbent upon any business to use technology to do a better job for a client. Better could be better, faster, cheaper, straight through processing, obviously making a digital mobile stuff like that. I remember banks have been doing that for years and you can buy and sell effects on your mobile phone now. And when some trader did a $400 million trade and I said, oh God, $400 million on a mobile phone, I said, we got to put breathalyze on those phones. I just envisioned, you know, some macho trader, you know, having two martinis and saying, I'm going to do this. But you know what, when I mentioned that to the wrist people, they said, we do have that. And we can actually put that in so that you can't do a trade without I couldn't even breathalyze or something like. Anyway, so I think in some ways, always look at a business from the standpoint of the client. So forget JP Morgan. So a lot of the things the clients need, they're still gonna need. In fact, those needs are gonna grow over time. ECM will still be there, DCM will be still there, hedging FX and hedging interest rates will still be there, M&A advice will still be there. But we have to use technologies to do things better, fast and quick like everybody else and straight through and all that kind of stuff. So, but if you ask me the thing that's gonna be most disrupted, it's going to be payments. There are payment systems that are antiquated. They're all the ACH system is terrible. But we just put out a P2P. You all use Venmo? We just put out a P2P, Zell. It's real time. Bank to bank. It's safer. It's better. It's real time. It's not social yet. I don't possibly understand why you'd want to see all that stuff with your friends. But it could be that. It could be in host sale payments. But you can go on screens now, moving money around the world, convert to different currencies. And so we're doing it. But if you ask me, that's where most of the trouble is going to take place. And we've invested in 100 FinTech companies. And we're willing to compete, build, buy, whatever it is. And just to give you an example, we're going to have online trading and robal investing for our clients. It's in beta today. I'm not sure I'm going to roll it out. We're going to roll it out and test it and test price and all that stuff like that. But we can add a lot of those things for free if we want it to. So we're not dead in the water. So when the time comes, you're going to see us being very aggressive to win businesses like we always have. And we rolled out it's not being marketed. We rolled out a mobile only bank in St. Louis recently. And we're going to test that. It's more for millennials than anyone else. But you know, from opening the account to moving money, it's only the debit card. And we're going to see how that works. And then we're going to try to modify that and then do it in all 50 states. Go ahead. They'll get it eventually. They'll call it. Hold it up. John Jonathan Walling, second year, third year PhD student now. And I have a question about how you brought up bureaucracy and politicalization and the sort of detriments that does to the firm and my concern is how do you assess the bureaucratization within JV Morgan compared with your peers and how do you trade off the agency that you give to individual portfolio managers with the oversight from compliance? Yeah well I mean we're pretty rigorous how we run the company so you know we meet all the time and go through everything top to bottom and we raise these issues and stuff like that is if you're You know what your authorities are if you're a trader, if you're a bank, you know exactly doing it. You also know what you're not supposed to do. And you also know when you're going to go to compliance committee or risk committee and underlying committee or credit committee, there's no mystery to any of that. And it happens every day and we barely make mistakes. And I'm not going to stand behind regulatory things and we have thousands of new rules and regular requirements. And that does create some of the bureaucracy, but it's not an excuse for us to say this is a better way to do it. We listen to customers all the time and the management team is open every issue. But a gen is always set by them, so it doesn't like you walk in the room and I said the agenda. If you work for me, I expect you to raise everything important, everything and anything, including bureaucracies, cost, slow down, bad service, competitors, got something better than us. That's your job, not my job. And so when I do it with you, presumably you're going to do with your management team. So you're always airing all these issues. We go on bus trips, we go to call centers, we go to op centers, we've got client reviews, we've got advisory groups, and all those things get circulated, all of them. So all the complaints, we're always trying to deal with that and become better and faster. I think one of the tough things about management is you have to get rid of the bad people. So I could say anything I want, but if I have a bunch of goombas, or they're not that good, or they're friends with Jamie type of thing, that is what causes the problem. And so very often you have people who are unwilling to get rid of the bad people. Bad could be because they're culture's bad. It also could be because they're not good, they're not good enough. So in meritocracy people say Joe deserves the job or a good old Joe and he's been here a long time and that doesn't mean they deserve the job. And you know in sports you know if you're not batting in 250 you're not going to be playing second base you know and it's very easy you take out of pictures not doing a good job in business they're left in those jobs for a long time. I'm not saying treat them disrespectfully. Now if you treat people disrespectfully you know you're going to lose their hearts and minds too. So it's got to be very respectful we're going to make a change for the following reasons But you really, if you're going to run a real meritocracy, you've got to make sure you really do it. And those people, I should filter through the whole company to loyalty is such a misnamed thing sometimes. What they usually mean is, I was asked was a young CEO in a room like this, we had just done a big deal. How can we loyalty you when you weren't loyal to Joe? He's been around, he trained a lot of people in the room and you just demoted him. And I couldn't answer the question, and I called the person the next day, and I answered every question eventually by the way. But I called him the next day and said, I thought about it. and you got it backwards. If I was loyal to Joe and kept him to the job, and most people thought he just wasn't doing a good job anymore, who might be in disloyal too? Everybody else and the customer. And so it's a hard thing to do, but that's the hardest thing to do in management, right there. And a lot of you will fail doing it because the other thing that happens in management, you're owned by the staff down the hall. You know, and they all take care of it. Don't worry about take care of it. Basically, that becomes a club. And they're not taking care of it for the company, the client to take care of it, journey for themselves. And so you have to be very, very careful in management, but why you're doing what you're doing? And who gets to speak up and who's in the room, and things like that? We've got time for one more question. So I work for JP Morgan Chase back in 2012, part of the team that redesigned the Chase.com. So I do know like Chase is always more towards the technically advanced company. And this question is more towards the tech side. It's like, what is the stand-off backing community in AI, like artificial intelligence, like AI is gonna take over automation stuff, and what does banking community think about it? Well, I don't care. Thank you, community, thanks, I'll tell you what I think. Big data, AI, machine learning, chat boxes, robots, they're all real. You know, we have thousands of data scientists and PhDs and not just coding. You know, we spend $9 billion in technology, $700 million in cyber, probably a billion dollars a year now, and just some of this stuff, just uniquely devoted to that. And it's real. It's an amazing thing that you can do. You can do today in a split second. So when you swipe that credit card, it goes to hundreds. Maybe a thousand algorithms to test for Ford, where you did it, how you did it with time. We do the same thing for big payments. So if you run a company, a small bit, a large company, like what happens to the Federal Reserve never would have to us. Payments at the wrong time, different type, different entry, we're actually monitoring your systems all the time. And we see anything wrong, we're calling you up and stuff like that. So it's real. The hardest part about it isn't understanding it, or knowing the technology. It's getting the people in the company to understand the power of it. So when we first started big data, we put, and we big data machine, and we put it up at the central for standards, and we use Hadoop, but to make sure, you don't end up with 84 different platforms and stuff like that out of control. And machine learning has another problem with regulation that everyone will go through. But we put it at the top, and we had to say to you, hey, you do prospecting? How do you do it? Why do you do it? We made prospecting 10 times more efficient commercial bank. Ten times. And don't think the cost is lower. Instead of $30,000 or $3,000, it also means you could put two more bankers and grant rapids. I mean, it's a huge benefit to the company and be immediately productive as opposed to take three years to build it up. And then once we did that, we now have it in every division. And so every division has a big data, AI, machine learning thing. And we ask every manager, come back and give us the use case you think is the best for you and so we're trying to and by the demand is going up like this but it's one of the areas you want the demand you know you want to spend more money obviously you want to spend it wisely but we push people so on technology I always do that you can't ever say to me you didn't do it because of the budget or you couldn't afford it it's not allowed you have to put it in your budget it's only a reflection of a 12 months of a plan I tell you you have to put on that plan everything you need to do going the sales force going companies going technology you know don't be a baby bad because people They'll say, well, we didn't do it because we couldn't afford it this year. Who said? We couldn't afford anything we want. We spent $58 billion a year. We make $35 billion pre-tax. And we've got spent on the $2 billion to get big data right. We're going to do it. So it's more about the getting it executed right than it is about the money. Everyone, please join me in thanking Jamie Dine. Thank you very much.
