Timestamp: 2026-05-01T00:25:25.963891
Title: Huan - 这1小时采访，强烈建议反复听几遍！   受访者是一位顶级数学家 + 投资人， 他一手创造了超过1000亿美元的财富， 平均年化回报率高达6... 2049643420008816640
URL: https://x.com/Huanusa/status/2049644107463545342?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 1:00:33

Description:
这份文本是关于詹姆斯·西蒙斯（Jim Simons）——这位传奇数学家、代码破解者、对冲基金巨头及慈善家的深度访谈记录。以下是对其职业生涯、思维模型及核心哲学进行的系统性分析。

---

### **PART 1. 作者地图 (Author's Map)**

**1. 核心论点 (Core Thesis)**
成功的本质在于将数学的严谨性、对基础科学的纯粹追求以及“招募聪明人协作”的管理哲学相结合。西蒙斯认为，无论是在纯数学研究还是在量化交易中，识别隐藏的模式并坚定不移地执行逻辑（模型），是超越直觉、获得非凡成就的唯一路径。

**2. 证据基础 (Evidentiary Base)**
*   **个人学术成就**：MIT三年的本科经历、伯克利的博士学位，以及与陈省身共同创立的“陈-西蒙斯形式”（Chern-Simons invariants），证明了其在微分几何领域的深厚造诣。
*   **文艺复兴科技公司（Renaissance Technologies）的实践**：100%由模型驱动的交易系统、雇佣100多位非金融背景的科学博士、长期优于市场的回报率。
*   **IDA（国防分析研究所）经历**：在代码破解过程中习得的算法思维和计算机建模能力。
*   **慈善事业**：西蒙斯基金会对基础科学（自闭症、起源学、数学教育）的大规模投入及成效。

**3. 逻辑授权 (Logical Warrant)**
作者通过**归纳法**和**因果推论**建立逻辑：
*   **从数学到金融**：既然物理世界存在数学规律，那么市场数据中也必然存在微妙的、可统计的异常（Anomalies）。
*   **从个体到组织**：通过建立开放共享、利益捆绑的科研氛围，可以将个体的聪明才智转化为集体的系统性优势。
*   **从基础到应用**：基础科学是“种粮”，虽然短期无用，但长远看必然产生不可预见的巨大价值（如陈-西蒙斯理论在物理学中的应用）。

**4. 划定界限 (Stated Scope)**
西蒙斯明确表示，他的模型管理资产有其“容量限制”（Capacity），无法无限增长而不扭曲市场。同时，他承认自己的成功具有“运气”成分，且他的管理风格仅适用于由高度聪明、自我驱动的科学家组成的特定群体。

**5. 隐含对手 (Implicit Opponent)**
*   **主观交易者**：依赖直觉、拍脑袋决策、受情绪波动的传统基金经理。
*   **急功近利的资助者**：只愿意资助“转化研究”（能立即看到治愈方法）而忽视基础科学研究的政府和机构。
*   **教育官僚**：试图通过标准化考试来衡量和惩罚教师，而非尊重和奖励优秀教师。

**6. 预期效果 (Intended Takeaway)**
读者应当认识到，严谨的数学建模和对“人”的正确管理是解决复杂系统问题的核心。同时，社会应重新评估基础科学和教师地位的价值。

---

### **PART 2. 尖锐但公平的审阅 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair REVIEW)**

**1. 强化论证 (Steelman)**
西蒙斯最强大的主张是：**“彻底的客观性优于局部的天才”**。通过将决策权完全移交给经过历史数据验证的数学模型，并剔除人类在压力下的情感干扰，文艺复兴科技公司创造了一个在统计学上具有必然性的获利机器。这种对“模型宗教”的坚持，是科学方法论在商业领域最极致、最成功的应用。

**2. 最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)**
> “这种对模型的宗教式坚持是经营此类业务的唯一方式……没有任何一笔交易是因为有人走进交易室说‘嘿，让我们买IBM’而达成的。”

**失效风险**：该逻辑完全依赖于“历史会以某种统计形式重演”的假设。一旦市场发生结构性断裂（黑天鹅事件），模型可能在瞬间产生灾难性的反馈循环。这种对模型的“盲目崇拜”排除了人类在极端异常情况下的常识性修正。

**3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)**
*   **幸存者偏差**：西蒙斯承认运气的作用，但他并未讨论有多少同样聪明、同样使用模型的数学家在市场中破产。
*   **黑箱嫌疑**：虽然强调科学协作，但文艺复兴的算法是绝对保密的。这与他提倡的“科学应公开共享”的慈善理念在本质上是冲突的——他在学术界利用公共知识，在商业界则建立知识壁垒。

**4. 隐含假设 (Hidden Premises)**
*   **假设一**：智力（PhD水平）在所有领域都是可迁移的。
*   **假设二**：金钱奖励是留住顶级科学家的最有效手段（尽管他提到了尊重，但分享利润是核心）。
*   **假设三**：市场异常是可以被持续挖掘的，而不会因为量化竞争的加剧而消失。

**5. 盲区 (The Blind Side)**
*   **社会成本**：量化交易是否真的为市场提供了流动性，还是仅仅通过算法优势从传统投资者手中掠夺财富？西蒙斯对此避而不谈。
*   **学术流失**：他的成功间接导致了大量顶级数学天才离开基础科研领域，转而投身于“如何让广告点击率更高”或“如何预测股价”，这实际上是对全球智力资源的掠夺。

**6. 一击致命 (One Hit Kill)**
如果文艺复兴的成功如你所说很大程度上归功于“在正确的时间出现在正确的地点”的运气，那么你所倡导的“科学管理模型”是否仅仅是一个被巨额利润掩盖了偶然性的华丽包装？

**7. 如何验证 (What Would Settle It)**
进行一项长期实验：观察在西蒙斯本人完全退出、且市场透明度增加的情况下，该模型是否能在未来20年内继续保持同样的超额收益。

---

### **PART 3. 逻辑架构图 (Mermaid Diagram)**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    subgraph SG_Core["💎 詹姆斯·西蒙斯的成功范式"]
        Main["<b>核心哲学: 逻辑、模型与人才的协同</b><br/>从纯数学到量化之王的演化"]
        style Main fill:#FFD700,stroke:#DAA520,stroke-width:3px,color:#000,font-weight:bold
    end

    subgraph SG_Foundation["🏛️ 第一阶段：数学基石 (学术时期)"]
        F1["<b>数学直觉</b><br/>对模式、对称性和几何的热爱"]
        F2["<b>陈-西蒙斯理论</b><br/>微分几何与拓扑的交汇"]
        F3["<b>基础科学信仰</b><br/>科学是人类认知的'种粮'"]
        F1 --> F2
        F2 --> F3
    end

    subgraph SG_Pivot["🔄 第二阶段：思维迁移 (跨界转折)"]
        P1["<b>IDA 经历</b><br/>学习计算机、算法与代码破解"]
        P2["<b>政治觉醒</b><br/>因越战立场被解雇 (原则高于职位)"]
        P3["<b>斯托尼布鲁克</b><br/>领导力磨炼 (管理聪明人的开端)"]
        P1 & P2 --> P3
    end

    subgraph SG_Business["📈 第三阶段：文艺复兴科技 (量化巅峰)"]
        B1["<b>100% 模型驱动</b><br/>宗教般执行，排除人为干扰"]
        B2["<b>人才算法</b><br/>招募顶级科学家而非金融专家"]
        B3["<b>文化模型</b><br/>开放、协作、利润共享、保密协议"]
        B4["<b>统计异常挖掘</b><br/>在海量数据中寻找微弱的确定性"]
        B1 & B2 & B3 --> B4
        B4 -- "产生" --> B5["非凡财富"]
    end

    subgraph SG_Philanthropy["🎁 第四阶段：回馈与反思 (慈善时期)"]
        PH1["<b>西蒙斯基金会</b><br/>资助基础研究 (自闭症、生命起源)"]
        PH2["<b>Math for America</b><br/>提升教师地位与薪酬 (社会补偿)"]
        PH3["<b>使命感</b><br/>让科学在官僚主义之外繁荣"]
        B5 --> PH1 & PH2 --> PH3
    end

    subgraph SG_Review["⚔️ 批判性审视 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair)"]
        R1["<b>黑箱悖论</b><br/>倡导科学开放，却将最赚钱的算法锁入黑箱"]
        R2["<b>智力掠夺</b><br/>将数学天才从基础科研引诱至零和博弈的金融"]
        R3["<b>归因偏差</b><br/>过度美化管理，低估了早期市场的低效率运气"]
        R4["<b>模型脆弱性</b><br/>对历史数据的过度依赖可能导致黑天鹅下的崩盘"]
    end

    %% Wiring
    SG_Foundation --> SG_Pivot --> SG_Business --> SG_Philanthropy
    SG_Business -.-> R1
    SG_Business -.-> R2
    SG_Core -.-> R3
    B1 -.-> R4

    %% --- Node Styles ---
    classDef foundationNode fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#1565C0,stroke-width:2px,color:#0D47A1
    classDef pivotNode fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#7B1FA2,stroke-width:2px,color:#4A148C
    classDef businessNode fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#1B5E20
    classDef phNode fill:#FFF3E0,stroke:#E65100,stroke-width:2px,color:#BF360C
    classDef reviewNode fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#D32F2F,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#B71C1C

    class F1,F2,F3 foundationNode
    class P1,P2,P3 pivotNode
    class B1,B2,B3,B4,B5 businessNode
    class PH1,PH2,PH3 phNode
    class R1,R2,R3,R4 reviewNode

    %% --- Subgraph Styles ---
    style SG_Foundation fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#1565C0,stroke-width:1px
    style SG_Pivot fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#7B1FA2,stroke-width:1px
    style SG_Business fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Philanthropy fill:#FFF3E0,stroke:#E65100,stroke-width:1px
    style SG_Review fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#D32F2F,stroke-width:2px
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
Okay, as a child were you good at mathematics like was mathematics a natural thing for you Which I was very natural and I always liked it. I like counting. I Like continually multiplying things by two Although by the time I got to a thousand twenty four or whatever it is I was had enough of it But I like I like math. I discovered as a very young kid maybe four something called Zeno's Paradox. Do you ever hear of Zeno's Paradox? My father told me that the car could run out of gas. And I was disturbed by that notion. I never occurred to me. But then I thought, well, it shouldn't run out. It could always use half of what it has. And then it could use half of that. And then half of that. And it could go on forever. And so it would never run out. So now it didn't occur to me, yes, but it wouldn't get very far either. But the idea that, in principle, you didn't have to run out of gas, was a kind of a profound thought for a very little boy. Were you a talented student? Were you always getting really good grades? Well, I was a pretty talented student. I knew I was very smart somehow, on the other hand I was very careless, so I sometimes screw up arithmetic tests because I did it too fast or sloppy. But I liked everything about it. I liked everything about math. I love learning the formulas of a sphere. Four thirds pie are cubed. I always thought that was a great formula. When I got to high school, we started with plain geometry, proofs, and theorems. That's where I really got gripped. That I really loved that. I loved working on some of the problems were harder than others, and I liked doing that. I was never the fastest guy in the world, but I would applaud through it and with determination. I just, I just like this. Did it feel like this was where your career was gonna take you or were you like another boy who dreamed of being a baseball or something like that? Oh, no, no, no. The only thing I thought about was I would be a mathematician, whatever exactly that meant. I didn't know quite what it meant, except that mathematics was the only subject I really liked. Science was okay, but it wasn't very well taught where I went to high school, least I don't think so, and history, English, I love to read, but I wasn't a good writer. I read a lot. When I went to MIT, I majored in mathematics, of course, and skipped the first year because I had had some of those courses in high school. And I even took a graduate course in my freshman year of a second semester in math, because it said no prerequisites required, so I said, oh, no prerequisites, I'll take that course. I had a very hard time getting my arms around that course. I finished it okay, but I was very puzzled by some of the concepts. However, that summer, I got another book, I got a book on, this was Algebra, but it not Algebra like solving equations with abstract Algebra. And then in a week, everything came together for me, I understood, I was no longer puzzled, I understood why they did everything. Other parts of math got me stymied for a while. But typically it would take some time for me to sort of grasp what they were trying to do. And then it would go very smoothly. So I graduated early from MIT in three years. Did you imagine you would be a professor sitting in a university or had no grasp before that? Yeah, by the time my freshman year was over, I kind of realized that's what it would mean that someone would pay you for thinking about mathematics and creating mathematics. What I thought earlier was I would do something that involved mathematics, but it was mathematics that I wanted to major in and I could see quickly that, well, that's the way, if you're going to do that, you're going to be a professor somewhere and a professor. You also talked about this week of algebra where everything sort of fell into place. Is that a common thing? Is there a thing that always happens? There's this moment where all the cogs move into place and it's like, ah, I get it now. I think yeah, there are moments like that. Sometimes you're introduced to a new concept and it's, you wonder what's, why are they talking about this? Why is this concept interesting? And then you think and you see some examples and they say, oh yeah, okay, this is really good. A lot in mathematics is making definitions. You'll see things that really could come together under one eges and you can define this set of notions and sometimes just a structure which follows all these notions and And that's a great way that mathematics is advanced because when you put a lot of things together that have similar characteristics, then you can try to prove theorems about the general set of things rather than some particular example. And that turns out to be a very powerful approach. So making a good definition is a good thing. They wanted me to go to Berkeley and get away from MIT's, meet some new faculty because Because I was quite close to the MIT faculty and they thought, I think they didn't want to get rid of me so much as they thought I was probably pretty good, so I should get exposed to a certain guy named Churn who was just coming to Berkeley that year. And I got this very nice fellowship and I went there. I was very eager to work with Churn, me churn, except he wasn't there. He celebrated his first year at Berkeley, he had just come to Berkeley and he celebrated that first year by taking a sabbatical. So he wasn't there. So I worked with another guy, which was fine. And by the time Churn came in the second year, I was already pretty far along with the thesis project. I was giving a seminar at the beginning of my second year at Berkeley and in-walked this tall Chinese guy. And I said to kind of next to me, who's that? So that's Churn, that's Churn. I didn't know he was Chinese. I thought churn was probably short for Chernowsky or something, or he was probably some polished guy who had shortened his name to churn. If it had been Chen, or Chen, I would have known it was Chinese, but churn with the R, I don't know, but anyway, so I met churn then, and we became friends, because I was much younger than he, but we became friends and later collaborators. Can you give some idea about what your area of specialization is at this point? What are you zeroing in mathematically on? Well, at that point, and pretty much thereafter, the field that I worked in was called differential geometry. Differential geometry is geometry, but it's the geometry of curved spaces. It's not flat things in the plane, it's any shape or form. But typically with some distance function, so that you knew how far apart things were. And the basic object to study is what's called a manifold. and a manifold is a lot of pieces of space glued together. So for example, the surface of a sphere is a manifold. Now you can't just take one little sheet of paper and make a sphere out of that, but you could glue a bunch of pieces of paper together and make a sphere. So a manifold is something that locally in your neighborhood looks like it's just regular space. Maybe it's curved a little bit, but globally it could be quite different. So, and the surface of a tire of a donut, for example, is fundamentally different from the surface of a spear. You can't deform one into the other. What really got me onto it is a certain theorem, which is called Stokes' Theorem. Now, Stokes' Theorem is the ultimate, I think, generalization of what was originally called the fundamental theorem of calculus. Now, I don't know if you studied calculus. But the basic theorem is if you integrate the derivative of a function, so you take a function, you take its derivative, first derivative, and then you integrate that, let's say, from A to B. Well, that gets you back the original function. The answer when you integrate the derivative is of F. It's, well, it's F of B minus F of A. That's the answer. If you integrate the derivative of a function, you'll get back the value of the function. Well, that was the fundamental theorem of calculus, presumably Newton knew that. Now, that had been generalized into higher dimensions, so there were other things you could integrate and differentiate and go from boundaries to interiors and so on. And the general statement of that theorem was, to me, almost breathtaking. It was so beautiful that theorem. And that's a bit one of the basic theorems in differential geometry. And it's about integrating something over the boundary. And that's the same as integrating something else over the interior, something related to it. It's derivative in effect. It's called it's differential. So there's a whole calculus of things called differential forms and integration and all that. And that takes place in manifolds in general and anything that looks like pieces of space. So I love that theorem and that's what got me into differential geometry. So was it a beauty or an elegance you saw or was it a trophy and a prize you saw that could be chased? No, it was just a beauty. It was just a beauty of it. I just liked it. I had learned a fair amount of algebra, and that was fine, but it didn't grab me. But the geometry did. So that's what I specialized in. And when I got to Berkeley, I was fooling around and started. I'd made some observations, and I mentioned them to my thesis advisor, the guy I was going to work with. And he said, oh, that's interesting. That makes me think about such and such a problem. That was a problem floating around that people had been trying and failing to solve. But I thought, oh, that's very interesting. So I started working on that. And he advised me not to, because so and so it tried and so on. I also tried it, and these were those were big shots. And I was just a little shot. But I didn't pay much attention to him. And I solved it and just worked through it and worked through it and, you know, had a little help along the way with people, but basically I drove that. I had done some other mathematics after my thesis, worked on something called minimal varieties and it was kind of a fundamental paper, it took me six years to write that paper. People were, I think, thought, how could I be, take six years? But anyway, it did, and that turned out to be a very good paper. That was where I was coming from. And roughly that time frame, or a year or two afterwards, I went when I was 30 to Stony Brook to be chair of their math department. Stony Brook University was a very new university. They had a rather poor math department, in fact, it was very bad, but an excellent physics department. They offered me this job as being chairman, and I thought that would be a lot of fun. In that time frame, I had decided to try to learn something about an area of topology which is related to geometry. It's the kind of handmaidings of each other, called characteristic classes, whatever that might be. And I thought, I'm going to just learn these characteristic classes because I didn't really know it and it was important and I wanted to learn about it. So I kind of started from the beginning and worked my way up, and I was trying to solve a problem as I later discovered, had intrigued many people. And it's never been solved satisfactorily, so since I say that, I didn't solve it either. And in the course of trying to do that, certain terms came up, certain functions of a sort that began to look just very interesting to me. And I saw, well, so they were a pesky term that I couldn't get rid of. I needed to get rid of that term in order to make this formula that I wanted. But the term seemed to have a life of its own, and one thing led to another, I defined a certain invariant of a three-dimensional manifold and used that to prove what's called immersion theorems, whatever those are. This was a very handy thing, and I showed it to churn, and said, look at these results in three dimensions, and he looked at it and said, oh, well, we could do this in all the dimensions because it was an area that he really knew about, not the results that I had gotten, but the whole, the general area. So we worked together and we came up with, well, these results, this whole structure. In fact there's, that's the slides of the presentation that Churn made at the International Congress in the early 70s. It was very nice geometry. I pushed on with it, and we defined some things called differential characters, which was another chapter with working with a guy named Cheager. But the term Simon's invariance, about 10 years later, the physicists got a hold of it. And it seemed to be very good for what them or whatever it might have held them and so and it wasn't just strength theory as I subsequently developed it was kind of all areas of physics including condensed matter theory even some astronomers seem to want to look at those terms that's really what's great about basic science in this case mathematics I mean I didn't know any physics it didn't occur to me that this material that That churn and I had developed would find use somewhere else altogether. This happens in basic science all the time, that one guy's discovery leads to someone else's invention and leads to another guy's machine or whatever it is. So basic science is at the, you know, it's the seed corn of our knowledge of the world. What did it feel like at the time you were coming up with it? did it just feel, did it feel obscure and just like a little diversion and then 10 years later it felt special? Or did it feel? Well, I never felt like a little diversion. I really liked the, I really liked the results. I loved the subject, but I liked it for itself. I didn't, I wasn't thinking of applications. You know, I mentioned to Cien Yang, who was at Stony Brook at the time, who was a Nobel Prize winning physicist of great renown. I said, I've got these things. Maybe they'd be useful in physics because I knew the physicists were looking in the same places using certain mathematical structures. But he didn't bite, and I didn't know how it would be useful. So I just left it alone. But I was very pleased with the math, and then it led to another set of definitions and some math that I did with this guy, Jeff Chieger, which started as sort of a mini field, although I didn't realize it at a time called, it's now called differential co-homology. And so that's a fair amount of people working in that area. What does it make you feel? It doesn't become like vindication or what I did was more useful than I thought or what do you think when it gets used to 10 years later or by then are you divorced from it and you're like, do what you want with it? Well, it's always made me feel very good of course. Naturally, you like to think that something you did had far reaching ramifications. You know, it was nice, but it wasn't. I didn't go to bed dreaming about, ah, now I've revolutionized physics, which, first of all, I didn't revolutionize physics, but did some stuff there. But sure, it made me feel good. Actually, in the middle of my mathematics career, which ended when I was about 37 to 38, was that I spent four years at a place called the Institute for Defense Analysis, down in Princeton, which was a super-secret government-based, national security agency-based place for code cracking, trying to break the enemies whoever it was, Russia, I guess, code machines and cypher machines. I spent four years there in Princeton. During that time I was working on this, when I said I took me six years to work through all this stuff in minimal varieties. I did a lot of it while I was there, But I also learned about computers and algorithms in the code cracking field. I was no good as a program or terrible, but I was pretty good at coming up with algorithms. And I found that very exciting to think, oh, this might help crack this code. Here's an algorithm which could work. Someone else would program it up. Then it would run on the computer. and maybe it would work and maybe it wouldn't. And I did one thing there that was quite good, because I can't tell you what it was. It's all classified. So I had a good career there, both doing mathematics and learning about the fun of computer modeling, let's say. Was that specialization that you'd had during your PhD, the manifolds and the topology, was that related to the algorithms where the two, or they, they're completely separate. Why were you drafted in for that in the first place then? They paid money. I was getting kind of bored simply being an academic, and also this work, this six-year project was maybe making me feel, gosh, other guys are publishing papers, and I'm not. But I wasn't thrilled with being an academic, and this place hired mathematicians, a handful. You could do mathematics half your time, and the other half your time you were supposed to work on their stuff. There was no teaching. So it was like, oh, I could do as much mathematics as I was doing anyway, and they paid better. And I thought this would be interesting and a nice change. And it was. And I enjoyed it. I did a lot of good math, or that I thought was good, and did a good work for them. But that ended after four years because I got fired. Well, you can't just leave it at that. You got fired. I got fired. Why did you get fired? Well, I got fired because this was in the middle of the Vietnam War, which I didn't like the war, not that we were doing anything to support the war in this particular organization, but nonetheless I just didn't like it. And then the head of the organization, he was down in Washington, he was a big shot named Maxwell Taylor, General Maxwell Taylor. He wrote an article in the New York Times magazine section of a Sunday magazine, a cover story, how we're really winning the war in Vietnam. We just have to stay the course and it's all gonna be great. And I thought that's a lot of baloney. So I wrote a letter to the time saying not everyone who works for General Taylor supports his views and in my opinion blah, blah, blah. It was a good letter. And they published it right away, of course, because it was unusual that someone would write such a letter in his situation. I didn't hear a peep. No one said anything at the company. They didn't say, you shouldn't have done that. But I was clearly on the watch list. Did you, when you wrote it, did you know you were doing something reckless? No. I didn't really think it was reckless, because it was my opinion, and it really didn't have anything to do with my work. But then, about three or four months later, a guy from Newsweek magazine came to see me, and he said he's doing an article about people who work for the Defense Department who are opposed to the war. And he says I have a lot of trouble finding such people, but could I interview you? Well, I was 29 years old, no one would ever ask to interview me before. It sounded like, hey, maybe I'll be interviewed. Okay, you can interview me. So we asked this that, but he really wanted to know, so what is your policy? So I sort of made up a policy, although it was pretty much true. I said, well, you know, here at IDA, you have to spend at least 50% of your time on their stuff. In those days, it was secret that it was even codes and ciphers. So I just said their stuff. But you could spend 50% of your time in mathematics. And so my algorithm now is, until the Vietnam War is over, I will spend all my time on mathematics. And then, after it's over, I'll spend all my time on their stuff until the two things match up again. And then, and that was kind of largely true. I was doing mostly mathematics, but I was doing a little of their stuff. So then, it occurred to me to tell my local boss that I gave this interview. He said, well, what'd you tell him? I said, well, I told him what I just said to you. He said, you did? He said, oh, I better call Taylor, his boss. And he called Taylor, and I came back into his office, and he said, you're fired. I said, I'm fired. You're fired. Taylor fired you. Taylor told me to fire you. So, well, I was fired. I said, you know, I don't know how you can find me. My title is Permanent Member, which was. I started as a temporary member, and then I became a permanent member. And then Pasha was very funny. He said, well, here's the difference between a temporary member and a permanent member. A temporary member has a contract. Permanent member doesn't. I had no contract, so I was out of there. And it was amusing. I mean, I wasn't, I had solved this big math problem that I had told you about this six-year thing. I knew I was gonna get a job very easily, so I wasn't really worried about that. You've honed your skills with algorithms, and you've learned a lot about computers. So I'm seeing the writing on the wall here for where things go next. How do we progress to you? Yeah, so at a certain point, now I wasn't, then I went to Stony Brook after this, it was chair, And did this work with churn, and did some work with chigger. And we got stuck. We were trying to prove something mathematical thing. And it was very, very frustrating. We worked on it for about two years. We got nowhere. I mean, it's OK to work for a long time if you feel you're getting somewhere. But we got absolutely nowhere on this problem. And my father had made a little bit of money. And I had the opportunity to try investing it. And that was interesting. And I thought, you know, I'm going to try another career altogether. And so I went into the money management business, so to speak. So you started with some of your dad's money, and that got you a taste for an interest in that. Some family money. And then some other people put up some money. And I did that. No models. No models for the first two years. So what were you doing then? You were just using cunning and, you know, just normal people do. Like normal people do. And I brought in a couple of people to work with me. And we were extremely successful. I think it was just playing good luck, but nonetheless, we were very successful. But I could see that this was a very gut-wrenching business. You know, you come in one morning, you think you're a genius, the markets are for you. We were trading currencies and commodities and financial instruments and so on, not stocks, but those kinds of things. And the next morning you come and you feel like a jerk, the markets against you, was very gut-wrenching. And in looking at the patterns of prices, I could see that there was something we could study here that there were maybe some ways to predict prices mathematically or statistically. And I started working on that and then brought in some other people and gradually built models and the models got better and better and finally the models replaced the fundamental stuff. So it took a while. I would have thought with your background and mathematician this would have almost occurred to you immediately. Like you would have straight away seen this, what was the two-year delay? Well, two things. I saw it pretty early, and I brought in a guy who was a wonderful guy also from the code cracking place, and he was, I thought together we'll stop building models. That was fairly early, but it wasn't right away. But he got more interested in the fundamental stuff, and he says the models aren't going to be very strong and so on and so forth. We didn't get very far, but I knew there were models to be made. Then I brought in another mathematician, a couple more, and a better computer guy. And then we started making models which really worked. But you know, the general, there's something called the efficient market theory, which says that there's nothing in the data, let's say price data, which will indicate anything about the future. There's the prices sort of always right. The price is always right in some sense. But that's just not true. So there are anomalies in the data, even in the price history data. For one thing, commodities especially used to trend, not dramatically trend, but trend. So if you could get the trend right, you'd bet on the trend, and you'd make money more often than you wouldn't, whether it was going down or going up. That was an anomaly in the data. But gradually we found more and more and more anomalies. None of them is so overwhelming that you're going to clean up on a particular anomaly because if they were other people would have seen them. So they have to be subtle things. And you put together a collection of these subtle anomalies and you begin to get something that will predict pretty well. How elaborate are these things? Because in my head I'm imagining some equation like Pythagoras equation. put a few numbers in and something spits out, but are these giant beasts of equations and algorithms, or are they simple things? Well, the system, as it is today, is extraordinarily elaborate. But it's not a whole lot of, you know, it's what's called machine learning. So you find things that are predictive. You might guess, oh, such and such should be predictive, might be predictive, and you You test it out in the computer and maybe it isn't, maybe it isn't. You test it out on long-term historical data and price data and other things and then you add to the system this if it works and if it doesn't, you throw it out. So there aren't elaborate equations at least not for the prediction part but the prediction part is not the only part. You have to know what your costs are when you trade. going to move the market when you trade. Now, the average person will make up by 200 shares of something and he's not going to move the market at all, because it's too small. But if you want to buy 200,000 shares, you're going to push the price. How much are you going to push the price? How are you going to, you know, you're going to push it so far that you can't make any money because you've distorted things so much. So you have to understand costs and that's something that's important. And then you have to understand how to minimize the volatility of the whole assembly of positions that you have, and so you have to do that. That last part takes some fairly sophisticated applied mathematics, not earth-chattering, but fairly sophisticated. What discipline of mathematics or disciplines is a multidisciplinary, or are we talking It's mostly statistics. It's mostly statistics and some probability theory. But I can't get into what things we do do use and what things we don't use. We reach for different things that might come that might be effective. So we're very universal. We don't have any. But it's a big computer model. For one thing, there is a capacity to the major model. It can manage a certain amount of money, which is rather large, but it can't manage an enormous amount of money because you're pushing, you're gonna end up pushing the market around too much. So it was kind of a sweet spot. That's how much it's reasonable to manage. Therefore, it would never grow into some behemoth, which would take everybody out and you'd be the only player. Well, of course, you were the only player that would be knowing to play against. There are limitations, at least the way we see it, but we keep improving it. We have about 100 PhDs working for the firm. That's what I mean. How did you get to that point? Did you start to think, we need this, we need that? We just hired smart people. My algorithm has always been, you get smart people together. You give them a lot of freedom. an atmosphere where everyone talks to everyone else. They're not hiding in a corner with their own little thing. They talk to everybody else. And you provide the best infrastructure, the best computers and so on that people can work with, and make everyone partners. So That was the model that we used in Renaissance. So we would bring in smart folks, and they didn't know anything about finance. But they learned. What was your employment criteria, then, if they knew nothing about finance, what were you looking for? Some of the PhD in physics and who had five years out and had written a few good papers was obviously a smart guy, or in astronomy, or in mathematics, or in statistics, someone who had done science and done it well, and was interested in, you know, applying his mind, or her mind, although it was mostly his, to, you know, modeling markets and making money. But it's a very good spirit. Now, I've been six years away from the company, so I'm not running it anymore. But I'm the chair of the board and I go to a monthly board meeting. I think the morale is very good. The spirit is good. And it's really a very good way to work scientifically. It's a big collaborative effort. And everyone is happy to see someone else come up with something good because the first person is going to share in that because everyone shared it in the profits. So okay, you might wish it was you to show how smart you were, but nonetheless, good he did it, I'm going to make money from it. I would imagine lots of people want to be financially successful. Most people people want that, of course. Nice pros. And lots of people are good at mathematics and know a lot about computers, like at your level, I would imagine. Why did you do it? Why didn't someone else do it? I don't know. Well, first of all, some other people have done it. I think that our firm is better. But nonetheless, I'm pretty sure of that. But nonetheless, other people have done some very good modeling, and so would not alone. But it's not easy to do. And there's a big barrier to entry. For example, huge data sets that we've collected over the years, programs that we've written to make it really easy to test hypotheses and so on. The infrastructure is exceptionally good. So everything is tuned right. It took years to learn how to do that. People don't leave a firm, or if they do, they believe to just do something else altogether. Everyone has signed a forever non-disclosure agreement and so on because we're you know we're very secretive about what we do because you can't patent that stuff or copyright it because then everyone would see what it is and someone would just work around it and say oh that patent's no good look I made this twist and that tweak and it's different so you can't what you have is your intellectual property and you have to keep that to yourself. So, yes, we were very successful. Continue to be, as I say, there are others, but most very few investment operations are 100 percent. Because this is 100 percent modeled. I mean, it's not 90 percent or 80 percent. Some people have models And for advice, they say, oh, what does the model say? Oh, yeah, let's go. Oh, I don't forget that. I don't want to pay attention to that. So, but, you know, Renaissance is 100% model driven. No trade is ever made because someone walks into the trading room and says, hey, let's buy IBM. It's a sure winner or anything like that. We got too much Google. We got a short, nobody does that. Maybe that we had too much Google, but nonetheless, he might have been right. But it's just what the model says. And that religious sticking to the model is the only way you can run such a business. Because you cannot simulate that guy who walked in and said, hey, let's Google's too high, let's sell it. How can you simulate that? You don't know what might have happened. but you can simulate or you can come up with a model or a new predictor and you can simulate it in the past. See, I did it too. So you have to stick to it. I know you guys made the model. So you do have the ownership of it and feel proud of it. But is it hard to follow the model religiously? Like, is it hard for your ego to think all the successors because of the computer? Like, and I just sat there and watched. No, the computer is just a tool that we use to. I mean, it's a good cabinet maker doesn't say it's all because of my wonderful chisel. You may have great film equipment, but that's not why you're a success at doing what you're doing. You're working with good equipment. But another guy would make a mess of it with the same equipment. So no, we don't feel, oh, the computer is doing everything. The computer does what you tell it to do. Mathematics is very collaborative. things that are learned are built upon by sharing. Are you learning things behind the locked doors at Renaissance that could help mathematics, but you're not sharing because you want to keep them a secret to help the business? No, there's nothing. There's nothing that we're learning behind locked doors and Renaissance that would help the general field of mathematics or the general field of science as far as I can tell. Do you think there's something about your personality that that made you able to do it, or is it just luck? Well, I think a lot of it's luck. I probably have a good personality for running a group of people, but there are other people who even have a better personality for doing that. We underestimate the role of luck. It's typical that if someone fails at something, he'll say, I had bad luck. And if he makes a success, he'll say, I was a smart guy. And oh, I was just lucky. People don't usually say that when they make a big success. And of course, obviously, not everyone can make a big success. But I think the luck played a role. I was in the right place at the right time. But I really, I think what I'm good at is getting good people to work together. So it was more, you would think it would, more your managerial ability than your mathematical genius that resulted in? Yes, definitely wasn't my mathematical genius. I think I'm a pretty smart guy. I can understand this stuff, but I wasn't. And I did come up with a few predictive algorithms, so that was fine. But many people did. I knew I wasn't going to come up with all of them, so that's where we have all these folks. So it wasn't my mathematical genius, but I think people respected me because I wasn't a good scientist. So well, he may act stupid, but we know he's really smart. So you had a few runs on the board, they would say. Given that you will put some of it down to luck, what are you more proud of all of this in the business or the mathematics from that first half of your career? Oh, to the extent that I'm proud, I think I'm proud of both. I think, yeah, I've done some mathematics and some of it had a positive effect, and I guess I'm proud of that. And I've built a nice business and I'm proud of that. I don't say I'm proud of one and the other. And now for the last number of years, I've been working with my wife on this foundation which she started actually in 94 with my money, but nonetheless she started the foundation. Then I joined, I got more and more involved with the foundation as time went on And now that's my main thing, and I'm pretty proud of the foundation. Let me focus you more on which the mathematics versus the business then. Would you trade any of your, any or all of your business success for, for being the man who cracked the Riemann hypothesis or something like that? No, that's a good question. Huh. When I trade that for, well, I probably trade some of it, I mean, for the Riemann hypothesis. would certainly, I guess, be a thrill to solve three-minute hypothesis. I'm pleased mostly with what, with the way my career has gone. So would I trade part of it for some? I don't know. I've never looked back and said, I wish, at least in business, I wish I hadn't done that or I wish I had done this and not that, whatever it is. I've never looked back that way. I guess the thing I'm getting at is, what do you define yourself as? a businessman or a mathematician? Well, I would not be very good at running an ordinary business. If I had to run a big manufacturing business or something like that, I don't think I'd be very good at. There's a level of detail that I would find tedious. I'm not the best organized person in the world. And frankly, I would be bored. So I'm not your typical business man. The kind of business that I did run was very natural to me. So in that sense, business, but I like business sort of. I always say what's the important mathematics skill in business is subtraction. You have to understand when your revenues going to exceed your costs. You know, some people, they just look at revenues, hey, we're growing, yeah, but you're losing money every day. Well, that'll take care of itself afterwards. So, but I don't think I'd be, I once had to, for about six months, run a small business in the computer area, a business that we had started, invested in, and then I wasn't going well, and we had to get rid of the head and find someone new, and I found myself running it for about three to six months, commuting to Philadelphia. And I came to the conclusion, I'm doing a better job than the guy was there before, but I'm not doing a very good job. And I found myself in business meetings like with the distributor from St. Louis at some, And I would remember saying, what am I doing, spending my time with some distributive from St. Louis? I mean, this is not the way I want to run my life. Finally we got someone in. He really knew how to run a business, and that was his, that kind of a business. The foundation is focused on support of scientific research, primarily basic science, but not completely because we have a large autism project, which involves a lot of basic science, But the treatments are a goal. But the rest is support of mathematics, physics, computer science, biology, of all sorts, neuroscience, genetics. We support basic science, and that's what we like to do. There's a certain amount of outreach. We have a math or a medical pro. We spend maybe 10 or 15 percent on outreach, outreach and education. But 85% is supportive basic science. Almost the nature of basic mathematical research is you can't really know where it's going to go. That's right. So are you throwing money at a wall and seeing what sticks, or how targeted are you about it? Well, to some extent, yes, we have an investigative grants which give outstanding mathematicians and physicists and computer scientists, a 10-year run where they have support for 10 years and they can use that money for a postdoc or something like that to help their work along. We don't know what work is going to be. We have no, well, we know what the guy has done, but it's not. These are very, very competitive and they're just the best people and it's helping their careers, whatever they might do. We also have collaborative projects that we support. There there is a goal, but it can be a rather vague goal like one is origins of life. Well, we'd like to know how we all got here. How did life originate outside, inside what was the path to life? Sovas, I don't know, 40 or 50 people working on that, and it's a very exciting project with making some progress. So there's a goal. But do I think that in the next five years we're going to know everything about the ore? No, I don't think so. But we'll learn more about this path that started with primitive organic molecules and ended up with an interview like this one. So there is a goal, but it's a relatively big goal. This model of philanthropy, of supporting the basic research, and not knowing where it's going to end up, almost seems the opposite of what you were talking about with your business. Totally. You were talking about with business, you know, revenues and costs and making sure. Yeah. Well, yes and no. When we would bring smart guys into Renaissance, we didn't know what they were going to do. We hope that they'd come up with some good ideas to make the firm better. But I didn't say, oh, this guy is going to discover. I want this guy to discover this thing. I don't know what he's going to discover. So, but it's, of course, very focused on a narrow set of outcomes, whereas the other basic science, anything goes, is very different from that. What's your attitude to risk? Because you almost have created a business that's based on removing risk, reducing risk. And yet, you took a risk by leaving tenure to go and start business. I mean, are you a risk taker or are you a risk minimiser? Or were you? You probably don't worry about it. Well, I suppose as we get older, we get a little more risk averse. I don't know. I know it's been something of a risk taker, I think. But I've had good taste. And especially, again, as I say, in people. and have pretty much always partnered up with people. So that cuts the risk. So, but I did, I certainly, when I started the company, I had a finance at myself, and I didn't know whether it would succeed or not. And, but I was pretty sure it would, but I didn't know. You put a lot of money into mathematics, so you've got some right to comment on it. How are you feeling about it? Oh, I think mathematics is really going quite well, worldwide, the research in a bit. A lot of new ideas are coming up, new fields, sort of are flourishing. It feels like a pretty healthy enterprise to me. What's not healthy is the state of mathematics education in our country. That's very unhealthy for young people. That's why we started this thing called math for America, so on. But we don't have enough teachers and mathematics who know the subject and even of science. And that's for a simple reason. 30, 40 years ago, if you knew some mathematics enough to teach, let's say in high school, there weren't a million other things you could do with that knowledge. Oh yeah, maybe you could become a professor, but let's suppose you're not quite at that level, but you're good at math and so on. Being a math teacher was a nice job. But today, if you know that much mathematics, you can get a job at Google, you can get a job at IBM, you can get a job at Goldman Sachs. I mean, there's plenty of opportunities that are going to pay more than being a high school teacher, right? There weren't so many when I was going to high school, such things. So the quality of high school teachers in math has declined simply because if you know enough to teach in high school you know enough to work for Google and well they're not going to pay that much in high school so how do you redress that how do we redress that as a country well you So we work, a person works for a combination of financial reward and respect, right? So a guy becomes Supreme Court Justice. He's not doing it because he's going to make a fortune, he'll be well paid, I suppose, but you know, Supreme Court Justice, everyone says, that's a big deal. You have a lot of respect, and you respect yourself, presumably. So there are many, so you can't pay, let's say, high school teachers of math as much as they would get in Google. But you can give them a bump, pay them more. We give people $15,000 a year more than they would make their regular salary. But we also create a community of math and science teachers, which they love, and it makes them feel important and they are important. They interact with each other. They don't, they're not full lawn, you know, stuck in some high school and no one to talk to. So we've created a community with a greatest breed of core, and these people don't walk out of the field. But turnover is very, very low, whereas ordinarily the turnover is quite high. So in Finland, for example, which has very good mathematics teaching, those are real professionals and they have a lot of status, societal status, a teacher in Finland. Here in the United States, teachers don't have such good societal status. And of course, the whole thing of getting rid of these bad teachers, get them out, and so on and so forth. Okay, maybe we have some bad teachers. But there's nothing said about, let's reward and recognize the really good ones. Right? So if you're running a business, yeah, you want to get rid of the dead. What if there are people who just aren't doing the job? But most, more important is to recognize that people who are doing a good job and reward them and extol them and make them feel good in one way or another. We don't do that at all with teachers. We just bashing them and bashing them and bashing them. Why has that happened in the United States, but not in Finland? Well, and it hasn't happened in most of the European countries. Why? Well, for one thing we have teachers unions, but that shouldn't be the reason because Finland probably has unions, too. I don't know. There's been a shift, and it's maybe started about 10 years ago, that we have to measure these teachers by outcomes. All right, fair enough. Well, what outcome? Oh, well, we're going to give their students standardized tests. If they have value added and so on, well, then they're good and if they don't have value. Well, in terms of judging people on student standardized tests as a disaster, it's a very, very weak statistic. It's not very highly correlated with how they're gonna do the next year by the same measure. And the, but somehow the theory is we have to measure these people, if they're not doing a good job, we have to get rid of them somehow or other we have to get these people out of the schools. Well, there's an old saying in the British Navy. Flogging will continue until morale improves. And that's kind of what this is. We're just being these people up. So how did it start? I don't know. Someone got the idea that we can measure output, but we can't, or at least we've imposed a system which stinks for measuring output. And the longer we stick with the system of writing teachers on performance of those students on standardized tests, the worse it's going to get. And the solution, as you've put it sounds to me like, just respect them a bit more and make them feel good about themselves. Yeah. And recognize and reward the very best ones. And that encourages people to say, hey, I could get to. Maybe I could rise up and get one of those become a master teacher or whatever. And someone can even come into the field and say, hey, that my cousin is a master teacher there. He's having a good life. So yes, but it's going to take a, we're doing it in New York pretty successfully. But it needs to be all around the country and it needs to be bigger than it is in New York, too. You seem to be a believer in markets. Markets in that, though. Is this not something that would correct itself? Like over time, like if the teaching drops and then the Google can't get the mathematicians and they have to improve the chick. Well, this not take care of itself, does it need it's no artist? No, here's how we're taking care of it now. We're importing people, H1 visas. And we're bringing in guys from other countries who do have this knowledge. And all the technology companies only want more and more H1 visas because they can't get enough homegrown talent, the talent that they need. So, now that's okay for a while, but about 12 or 13 years ago, for example, of the graduates from the Indian Institute of Technology, I, whatever they call it, Indian, IIT. About 80% of them left India, and would come to the Europe and the United States to catch jobs. Now it's 20%. Because India is doing much better. There's plenty of technical jobs in India. So hey, I can stay home. I don't have to run to England or I don't have to run to the United States to work. So well, there are people from other countries who are coming and we're taking advantage of that. But they will come when we just won't have enough people here of our own folks who know enough to do this work. So basic research is, as I have said, the sort of the wellspring of human knowledge about our world. But the federal funding for basic research has become restricted. The one thing, federal funding for science has come down anyway, overall. And second of all, there's increasing tendency for these agencies to fund what's called translational research rather than basic research. Translational means, okay, you're working on cancer, great, we're going to have a cure for this in three years, okay, fine, we'll give you money. You're working on how the basic cell is working, well, the applications are too far away. So there's less the Congress pushes the NIH and the NSF, too, probably, to, hey, you know, we want to see some return on this money. We want to see results. So they're more conservative, wild ideas less often get funded because, you know, so the government's not doing such a good job at supporting basic science. And so there's a role for philanthropy, an increasingly important role for philanthropy. Do you give your money to basic research because you feel somehow indebted to it for your own success, or do you do it just out of like a belief, or do you feel like you're giving something back to us, to what gave something to you? That's an interesting question. I do it because it feels good. I like science. I like to see it flourish. I like to be around scientists. I like to learn new things. And my wife feels the same way. She loves science. So we're very happy to do this. Do I feel I'm giving back, and especially, you know, I could give back in a lot of ways. There's a lot of things I could do besides support science. Do you have a favorite number? Seven. Next question. Do you have a favorite mathematician? Well, our comedies and Euler are my current favorites, but maybe you meant somebody, I'm very impressed with those two guys. Thank you so much for so much of your time. All right, well this was kind of fun.
