Timestamp: 2026-07-04T01:06:40.827897
Title: 彭博社  深入Anthropic：9650亿美元AI巨头内幕 BV1rujU6EEyT
URL: https://b23.tv/uTGMxWT
Status: success
Duration: 46:59

Description:
# 第一部分：作者图谱 (Author's Map)

## 1. 核心论点 (Core Thesis)
Anthropic 致力于通过平衡的技术开发、独特的“宪法AI（Constitutional AI）”对齐方法以及审慎的商业与政府合作，在推动人工智能（如 Claude 和 Mythos）前沿发展的同时，作为负责任的主体实现人类的长期福祉，并积极规避技术失控带来的存在性风险（Existential Risks）。

## 2. 证据基础 (Evidentiary Base)
*   **硬数据 (Hard Data):** 
    *   Anthropic 的 API 交易量在过去12个月中增长了近17倍，第一季度年化增长率达到80倍。
    *   Mythos 模型在测试中自动识别出成千上万个主流操作系统的安全漏洞。
*   **专家证言/高管叙述 (Expert Testimony):** 
    *   联合创始人 Dario 和 Daniela Amodei 的亲身经历，以及 7 位联合创始人至今无一离职的组织稳定性。
    *   首席工程师 Boris Churney 证实，Claude Code 已在其实际工作中编写了 100% 的代码。
*   **历史先例/类比 (Historical Precedent/Analogy):** 
    *   将 AI 发展与曼哈顿计划、核武器开发进行类比，指出 AI 是历史上首个完全由私营部门主导、政府滞后参与的颠覆性技术。
*   **实际案例 (Anecdotes/Cases):** 
    *   离开 OpenAI 的历史事件（因价值观和信任分歧）；
    *   与美国国防部签署的 2 亿美元合同；
    *   Claude 在美军逮捕委内瑞拉总统马杜罗行动中的应用，以及在伊朗战场（通过 Palantir Maven 系统）的间接参与。
*   **直觉泵 (Intuition Pumps):** 
    *   “平滑指数曲线（Smooth Exponential）”：在爆发前夕，外界感知是“什么都没发生”，随后瞬间失控。
    *   “医生隐喻”：诊断工作被 AI 100% 替代后，医生职业将彻底转型为以“床边关怀（Bedside Manner）”为主的人际互动职业。

## 3. 逻辑授权 (Logical Warrant)
其论证过程基于以下三段论：
*   **大前提：** 随着 Scaling Laws（规模定律）的持续生效，AI 模型的智能和自主能力呈指数级跃升，必然带来失业、网络武器滥用和地缘军事失控等毁灭性风险。
*   **小前提：** Anthropic 拥有行业顶尖的开发能力，且其独特的“宪法AI”框架、对企业端（而非消费端成瘾性应用）的坚守，以及创始人的道德警觉，使其成为目前最安全、最值得信赖的开发者。
*   **结论：** 因此，由 Anthropic 这样有原则、有克制的公司主导前沿 AI 开发，并在关键时刻（如 Mythos 的网络安全威胁）实施限制性发布与红线监管，是保障人类安全渡过“技术青春期”的唯一可行路径。

## 4. 声明范围 (Stated Scope)
论点的适用边界被限定在**“人机协同的过渡期”**以及**“捍卫民主同盟的地缘政治框架”**内。
> “在军事上，我们提供技术，但政策制定权必须留给军事决策者。”
> “我们无法保证成功，但或许我们可以保证：如果这群人（Anthropic）做不到，那就没人能做到。”

## 5. 隐性对手 (Implicit Opponent)
*   **放任主义的竞争对手 (如 Sam Altman/OpenAI)：** 被指责为“YOLOing”（不计后果、拉满风险偏好），为了商业利益和消费端流量而牺牲安全与诚实。
*   **极右翼去监管倡导者 (如 特朗普政府/大卫·萨克斯)：** 批评他们将任何安全红线和透明度要求视为“扼杀创新”，并在面临真正危险时又恐慌性地叫嚣“国家化”。
*   **技术乌托邦主义者/否认风险者：** 那些宣称“AI 不会消灭工作，只会创造工作”的行业巨头（如黄仁勋），被其批评为在进行“廉价的市场营销”。

## 6. 预期收获 (Intended Takeaway)
读者应当确信：AI 的破坏性力量（软件业重塑、白领失业、军事杀伤力提升）已不可逆转；面对这一历史洪流，公众和政府应当支持 Anthropic 的“温和、理性、渐进”的监管与对齐路线，并将 Anthropic 视为地缘政治博弈中不可或缺的“负责任的技术守门人”。

---

# 第二部分：冷酷而极其公平的审阅 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review)

## 1. 强版本构建 (Steelman)
Anthropic 的核心逻辑并非虚张声势的“末日营销”，而是对**“前沿技术涌现速度远超人类建制消化能力”**这一客观现实的深刻担忧。随着 Mythos 等模型在网络攻防中展现出“超级武器”级的杀伤力，传统的开源和自由放任模式将直接导致国家关键基础设施的瘫痪。在此背景下，Anthropic 顶住巨大的商业压力，选择不公开释放 Mythos，并通过“Project Glasswing”向特定防御机构提供服务，同时在军事合作中坚守“不参与自主武器和大规模监控”的底线。这是一种在资本主义竞争和地缘政治现实的双重夹缝中，为了人类生存而做出的、极其痛苦但高度理性的务实妥协。

## 2. 最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)
本论证中最脆弱的支柱是其**“军事红线与道德免责的相容性”**。
> **具体引言：** *"If we provide a technology, it's not up to us to say, you can do this military operation and you can't do that military operation... you have to leave policy in the hands of the military decision makers."* (如果我们提供技术，我们无法决定你可以执行这个军事行动而不能执行那个军事行动……你必须把政策留给军事决策者。)

**致命性分析：**
这一表态直接瓦解了 Anthropic 赖以立足的“AI 安全与道德守门人”的整套叙事。Amodei 一方面声称为了防止技术被滥用，不惜与国防部对抗、承受被拉黑的风险；另一方面却在 Claude 实际参与造成平民伤亡的军事打击（如伊朗女校遭袭事件）时，以“最终决策由人类做出”为由进行道德免责。如果 Anthropic 将“具体如何使用技术”的解释权完全让渡给军方，那么其设立的所谓“红线”就沦为了纯粹的公关遮羞布。只要军方在名义上保留一个“按下按钮的工具人”，Claude 就可以无限地、不加区分地加速目标锁定（从每日1000个提升到5000个），而 Anthropic 却能凭借“人机协同”的定义维持其道德纯洁性。

## 3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)
*   **选择性披露与“道德溢价”：**
    Amodei 声称“不发布 Mythos 让我们在商业上承受了巨大的损失”。然而，他隐瞒了这一决定带来的**非货币性资产增值**：通过“Project Glasswing”将 Mythos 的独家访问权提供给 NSA 等联邦机构，Anthropic 实际上在五角大罗黑名单事件后，重新确立了其作为国家安全核心供应商的不可替代地位。这种“限制性发布”本质上是一种地缘政治层面的特权变现。
*   **对失业潮的乐观粉饰：**
    在讨论“AI 导致白领失业”时，报告引用了其关于行业影响的论文，并提出了“医生转型为床边关怀者”的隐喻。但这完全忽略了**劳动力市场的结构性摩擦**：一个被裁减的初级程序员或法律助理，绝不可能在短期内无缝转化为高薪的“ interpersonal（人际关系驱动型）”医生或关怀者。这种用长期宏观乌托邦来掩盖短期微观灾难的作法，缺乏严谨的数据和可行性方案支持。

## 4. 暗含假设 (Hidden Premises)
*   **假设一：Anthropic 的“宪法”具有先天的普适性与合法性。**
    他们假设通过参考《联合国人权宣言》以及与少数宗教领袖对话，就能拼凑出代表“全人类”的道德准则。
    *   *未提倡的拷问：* 凭什么一家位于旧金山、由风投资本和地缘巨头扶持的私营公司，有权力单方面定义全球数十亿人所使用的 AI 的“宪法”和道德边界？
*   **假设二：“好人必须拥有更好的模型”这一威慑逻辑是稳定的。**
    这套逻辑支撑着他们不断推进技术极限（包括开发网络武器级模型）。
    *   *未提嚣的拷问：* 这种逻辑与冷战时期的核军备竞赛如出一辙。当“好人”为了防范“坏人”而不断加速开发破坏性模型时，是否反而以“安全”之名，加速了技术失控临界点的到来？

## 5. 认识盲区 (The Blind Side)
*   **监管俘获（Regulatory Capture）的真实意图：**
    Anthropic 极力倡导的“强制性预发布测试与政府审计”，在客观上起到了**抬高行业准入门槛、扼杀开源社区**的作用。对于资源有限的初创企业和开源开发者而言，复杂的合规审计是无法承受的成本。这表明其高调的“安全倡导”背后，隐藏着通过建立监管壁垒来巩固自身与科技巨头（谷歌、亚马逊、微软）垄断地位的商业潜台词。

## 6. 一击必杀 (One Hit Kill)
> **致命问题：** 
> “如果 Claude 在实际地缘冲突中，通过 Palantir 平台协助生成了导致平民儿童伤亡的打击目标，而你们的回应是‘因为最终决定是由人类做出的，所以这并未违反我们的红线’——那么请问：**你们的‘安全红线’究竟是为了保护人类免受技术的伤害，还是为了保护 Anthropic 免受法律和道德的起诉？**”

## 7. 如何盖棺定论 (What Would Settle It)
要验证 Anthropic 究竟是“人类福祉的守护者”还是“披着道德外衣的军工复合体新贵”，需要：
1.  **军事审计：** 由无地缘利益冲突的第三方国际审计机构，调取 Claude 在 Palantir Maven 等军事系统中的底层调用日志，评估其在目标生成、情报过滤中对平民伤亡的实际“贡献率”。
2.  **社会学追踪：** 在未来3-5年内，对比因 Claude Code 普及而失业的初级技术人员数量，与 Anthropic 承诺创造的“人际关系型/AI引导型”新岗位数量的真实比例。

---

# 第三部分：概念关系图谱 (Mermaid Map)

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    %% 节点样式定义
    classDef coreNode fill:#FFF9C4,stroke:#FBC02D,stroke-width:3px,color:#333333;
    classDef techNode fill:#E1F5FE,stroke:#0288D1,stroke-width:2px,color:#01579B;
    classDef riskNode fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#D32F2F,stroke-width:2px,color:#C62828;
    classDef defenseNode fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#388E3C,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20;
    classDef reviewNode fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#7B1FA2,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#4A148C;
    classDef reviewDetail fill:#FFFFFF,stroke:#9C27B0,stroke-width:1.5px,stroke-dasharray: 3 3,color:#7B1FA2;

    %% 核心使命与定位
    subgraph SG_Core["💎 核心使命与定位 (Core Mission)"]
        A["<b>Anthropic 联合创始人</b><br/>Dario & Daniela Amodei"]:::coreNode
        B["<b>核心使命</b><br/>开发负责任的AI，造福长期人类"]:::coreNode
        C["<b>核心方法：宪法AI</b><br/>Constitutional AI (UN人权宣言等)"]:::coreNode
    end

    %% 技术与商业引擎
    subgraph SG_Tech["🚀 技术与商业引擎 (Tech & Business)"]
        D1["<b>Scaling Laws (规模定律)</b><br/>模型随算力/数据呈指数级提升"]:::techNode
        D2["<b>主力产品：Claude</b><br/>定位：专业温度、企业级工具"]:::techNode
        D3["<b>效率跃升：Claude Code</b><br/>自动编写100%代码，解放程序员"]:::techNode
        D4["<b>商业策略：专注企业端</b><br/>规避消费端成瘾，追求价值观对齐"]:::techNode
    end

    %% 地缘政治与安全困境
    subgraph SG_Risk["⚠️ 存在性风险与地缘政治 (Risks & Geopolitics)"]
        E1["<b>平滑指数曲线</b><br/>爆发前寂静，随后瞬间失控"]:::riskNode
        E2["<b>网络超级武器：Mythos</b><br/>自动挖掘数千安全漏洞，威胁基建"]:::riskNode
        E3["<b>限制性发布 (Project Glasswing)</b><br/>承受商业损失，仅向特定防御机构开放"]:::defenseNode
        E4["<b>军事合作与争议</b><br/>2亿美元DoD合同，经由Palantir参与战场"]:::riskNode
        E5["<b>红线政策</b><br/>禁止自主武器、禁止大规模监控"]:::defenseNode
    end

    %% 批判性审视
    subgraph SG_Review["🚩 审阅与批判 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review)"]
        R_WeakLink["<b>最薄弱环节：军事免责</b><br/>将具体政策责任完全推给军方"]:::reviewNode
        R_WeakLink_Detail["'只要有人类按下按钮'<br/>即可规避平民伤亡的道德审判"]:::reviewDetail
        
        R_Audit["<b>证据审计：道德溢价与特权变现</b><br/>利用Mythos限发巩固国家安全垄断地位"]:::reviewNode
        R_Audit_Detail["宣称承受商业损失<br/>实则完成深层地缘政治绑定"]:::reviewDetail
        
        R_Blind["<b>认识盲区：监管俘获</b><br/>强制性审计扼杀开源，建立寡头壁垒"]:::reviewNode
        R_Blind_Detail["高合规门槛排除初创竞争者<br/>保护科技巨头既得利益"]:::reviewDetail
    end

    %% 核心逻辑连接
    A --> B
    B --> C
    C --> D2

    D1 --> D2
    D2 --> D3
    D3 --> D4
    D1 --> E1

    E1 --> E2
    E2 --> E3
    E3 --> E4
    E4 --> E5

    %% 批判性指向
    E5 -. "被质疑" .-> R_WeakLink
    R_WeakLink --> R_WeakLink_Detail
    
    E3 -. "被质疑" .-> R_Audit
    R_Audit --> R_Audit_Detail
    
    B -. "被质疑" .-> R_Blind
    R_Blind --> R_Blind_Detail

    %%  subgraph 背景颜色设置
    style SG_Core fill:#FFFDE7,stroke:#FFF59D,stroke-width:2px,color:#333333
    style SG_Tech fill:#E1F5FE,stroke:#B3E5FC,stroke-width:2px,color:#01579B
    style SG_Risk fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#FFCDD2,stroke-width:2px,color:#C62828
    style SG_Review fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#E1BEE7,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#4A148C
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
I love this library. It is absolutely beautiful library. Are you a big reader? You know, I mean, I read a lot in general. I don't know that I've had that much time over the last year or so. Dario Amade is an unlikely AI celebrity. He's known for warning the world about the risks of artificial intelligence. Now, his company is an AI front runner, valued at nearly a trillion dollars. You're shipping so much so fast, So fast, how are you doing that? We use Quad, you know, across the product development cycle and it allows us to release very fast. Founded by a team of OpenAI defectors in 2021 and Thropic started out as an underdog lab. Today, it's the breakout star, wiping billions in value off software stocks, going head to head with the Pentagon and creating models allegedly powerful enough to burst through the walls of modern cybersecurity. Some of the early companies that we gave this to said things like, this is a super weapon. Please don't release this. Guiding anthropic through this is a sibling duo. Dario, the brother in visionary, and Daniella, the sister and operator who puts Dario's swirling cosmic thoughts into action. Dario and I, we've always been really close since we were little, but I think we always really wanted to do something big together. OK, but when you argue, who wins? No one. No one. As the AI arms race escalates, the omidays are eager to establish themselves as the good guys. But Anthropic's technology could have profound implications for how humanity works, learns, thinks, even fights wars. Anthropic is run by an ideological lunatic. This is a debate about what the proper use of AI by the government is. At some point, the models become very dangerous. You know, the bad guys will have a two. And at that point, we have to make sure that the good guys have a even better model. The name Anthropic actually comes from the Greek word for human, which speaks to their mission to build responsible AI for the long-term benefit of humanity. Can you actually do that when you're building the most powerful technology in the world? You're at the center of the AI universe right now. What does that feel like? The experience I've had from my whole career and certainly the whole time in Anthropic is that there's this kind of smooth exponential. And the experience, the smooth exponential is nothing's happening, nothing's happening, nothing's happening. Little things happen and then zoom, it goes crazy. So I was watching this graph for a while and I said, oh yeah, we'll probably become the AI company with the most revenue and the most valuation sometime around this time and indeed, indeed it has happened. We're just keeping in mind all the things we usually keep in mind. How do we train good models? How do we put them in good products? we make sure that everything's safe? What were you like as a kid growing up in San Francisco? I know your dad was a leather craftsman, your mom worked in libraries. How did that shape you? You know, the whole, you know, like, first, you know, internet revolution was happening around me and I had absolutely no interest in it. I was just interested in like doing math and like scrolling, you know, scrolling things. I was interested in like, you know, understanding the universe, those interested in science fiction. And I think I just felt a lot of curiosity about the world. What was it like growing up with Dario? He was so smart. He was taking calculus when he was in, I think, middle school. He took math classes at UC Berkeley when he was in high school. I was actually more into reading and arts. So we were almost like complete compliments in that way. Dario studied neuroscience before turning to AI at Baidu and later Google. while Daniella started out as an early employee at Strait. They lived together in San Francisco along with Daniella's husband, Holden Karnovsky. Then in 2016, Dario joined the newly formed OpenAI followed by Daniella in 2018. The company began as a nonprofit that promised a safe, more open path to superintelligence. I think we need to think right now about how we want this deployed, how everyone gets to benefits from it, how we're gonna govern it, how we're gonna make it safe sort of good for humanity. At OpenAI, Dario developed the concept of scaling laws, predicting that large language models would improve simply by adding more data and computing power, even if the underlying algorithms stayed the same. At that point in time, I know it sounds crazy now looking back. Not a lot of people believed, hey, scale up is the way that these models are going to get smarter and better. That was sort of an unusual counter-cultural scientific perspective that I think was really held by our, you know, founding research team. That approach helped supercharge OpenAI's models, paving the way for chat GPT. But the omidays reportedly clashed with Altman over the company's direction and values. Altman has said, for all the differences I have with Anthropic, I mostly trust them as a company. Your decision to leave OpenAI has become Silicon Valley lore. What did you disagree on? Look, I'm going to say it very simply. There are many valid disagreements to be had on safety. We certainly had some of those disagreements with them, but that alone is not sufficient to leave when you feel that you can't trust someone. When you feel that their values are not what they say they are. When you feel that they're not honest, that makes it very hard to continue to work with the company to continue to trust the company. And look, at the end of the day, why argue with someone when you don't have the same vision and you don't trust them? The way to resolve it, is you go off and do your thing, they go off and do their thing. So this is Procedopark. When Dario and Daniela decided to leave OpenAI to start Anthropic, this is where the early team would get together. It was during the pandemic, so the story goes, and a bunch of early employees would come here, they'd pull up a chair on the grass, they'd have lunch, and they'd talk about what they were building. When we started this company, there were seven co-founders of which me and Danielle are two, and now we're basically the only company in the space that has all of its co-founders still here. You don't get to be a company of the size and scale that we are with that happening, like that almost never happens. From the start, Anthropic pitched itself as the ultimate safety conscious AI company. Dario has published long essays with names like Machines of Loving Grace and the adolescence of technology, musing on the miraculous potential of AI, as well as the worst-case scenarios. Anthropic's chatbot, Claude, has been trained to follow a set of principles called a Constitution intended to keep it on the straight and narrow. Claude has a very distinct style and feel, a human name. What are you trying to convey? I think when people interact with Claude versus, you know, other systems, there is more of a feeling of, I like to describe it as professional warmth. So the goal is not for it to be your best friend, but it's not for it to be sort of cold, rot, calculating. It should feel approachable, but distant, right, professional. Anthropic has talked about teaching Claude to be good. What is a good model? What is a bad model? You don't want a model that lies accidentally or intentionally, lying, we call hallucinations, it makes something up. The models are just trained to predict the next word, so sometimes they don't know, and they just invent something. Models sometimes, as we've shown in our research, can purposely try to deceive you. You have to make sure that doesn't happen in production models that we expose to customers. And then there's a lot of work around harmlessness, just making sure that the model is not accidentally producing, you know, information that is wrong or harmful or could cause someone to do something bad. Whose values are being put into cloth? Like, is there a universal good? There's so many religions, so many different beliefs. Like, how do you even decide that? So of course, there's no universal standard for what makes something helpful or harmless, but there are founding documents in human history like the UN Declaration of Human Rights, that we can use to train quads character. And I think, you know, interestingly, on the religious front, we've actually started I have a lot of conversations with religious leaders around how should we think about, you know, clawed the entity? And how can we bake in some of the kind of core values that are consistent across religions, types of belief that really just transcend, you know, a specific worldview, but that are really things that human beings have been grappling with for millennia? Have you tried to give clawed a trait that didn't take, or was there any trait that emerged that surprised you? I think in the early days, It's funny to look back on them now. The kind of early quads, quad two era, sometimes quad would be almost a little bit nanny-ish. Quad was like, I'm really concerned about you. And you're like, quad, I was asking for the weather, right? It was like, it was something really benign. Thankfully, we didn't release most of the, most egregious versions of those. But I think it is, when you think about it, it's like tuning a dial. And so our researchers have this very fine needle to thread in order to land at the center of that. Whatever anthropic is doing with quad, it seems to be working. Anthropics revenue has skyrocketed over the past year, making the company profitable for the first time. That's largely thanks to the company's focus on more lucrative business tools. Cloud Code, a major leap that automated large chunks of software engineering, and Cloud Code Work, which gave that power to everyone else. Now, early on others focused on funds, flashy consumer apps. You made a bet on coding and enterprise. Why did you make that bet? Was it a values decision or a business decision? Look, if you pick a business model that fundamentally conflicts with your values, you're gonna have a hard time, right? Either you betray your own values or you become irrelevant. And so when we thought about it, we said, look, you know, we've seen the world of social media, the consumer world, it really seems to, you know, encourage engagement, even addiction. You know, the swap we've seen with AI video models, It's like what's going on is it maximizes a number of minutes that you're paying attention to because that's the advertising revenue driven incentive. Whereas if we look at enterprise, look, I mean, you know, we want to make these models useful to people. We want to use AI to, you know, cure diseases that we couldn't cure before, right? Well, that's working with biotech, it's working with pharma, it's working with academic research groups. All of those are enterprises, right? We want to use AI to like, you know, to make energy cheaper and more efficient, that's all enterprise. And so I think it served us well to have this business model that largely aligns with our values. Soon after Claude Kowork was released, $285 billion in market value vanished overnight, traders called it the SASPocalypse. This kind of white collar wipe out story in the software sector, terrifying. Some of those are down for nine days in a row, so clearly the tension is building. If AI continues improving at this pace, how much of traditional software gets replaced and how fast? I think with AI, like the pie is getting bigger, right? So the existing incumbents may be smaller in relative terms. Some of them may go down in value. Some of them may even go out of business if they don't adapt in the right way. But like, I would guess that the software industry gets larger, not smaller, although there will be some big losers. who don't kind of see what's coming, who don't identify the moats they have, they're going to have a really hard time. Anthropics recent growth spurt might not have happened without this man, Boris Churney, the engineer behind Claude Code and Claude Co-Work. When Anthropic hired him in 2024, Churney was living a very different life in rural Japan. There was a lot of farmers markets like Very Slow, we were making miso without sort of the big coffee. And I remember using the first AI chop up that I'd ever used and it just took my breath away and I was just like oh my god I have to I have to just be a part of this and I'm also just such a big sapphire reader and so I just know how bad this thing can go like this technology is incredibly powerful and so move back you created cloud code you led the development of cloud co-work what problem were you trying to solve if you look at the coding products they were all pretty simple it was like it was sort of like you know like complete the word complete the sentence, that was the extent of AI encoding. And we just wanted to make a way bigger bet. And our bet was we think actually a coding agent can do a whole bit. A year and a half ago, you wrote the code by hand. And sometimes you press tab and it would autocomplete a line. Now I talk to my cloud, and it writes the code. And then while it does that, I talk to the next lot and it writes some code. And at any point, I have either a few clouds running and up to a few thousand clouds running, doing things. How much code is cloud writing internally for engineers here? It's writing almost all of it. On my team, so for me personally, it's been writing 100% of my code for every six months. The work of engineering has just completely changed. I feel like I suddenly have superpowers. I have a jetpack. And the engineering has never been this fun. Can we give cloud a spin? Yeah, let's do this. All right. All right, so let's make a little recipe app. So make a recipe app. What do you want it to do? I would love it to suggest meals for the week. So, you know, this was gonna take me a few minutes and let's just see if it co-op builds this. Oh, it gave me some options. Let's do... It looks pretty tasty actually. I could do a Greek chicken power bowl when I click on a recipe. I want it to show me how to do it. Thank you. Oh. I was trying to say thank you. Yeah, I was trying to be nice too. I don't know. A recipe app might not be the most mind-blowing demo of Anthropics technology, but what Cloud Code just did in minutes used to take hours or days. For some, that looks like a big opportunity. Are you nervous about next week? What's next week? Your developer conference. Oh, yes. Yes. There's so many things happening every week. You're over year API volume is up nearly 17X on the last 12 months we shipped eight frontier models to developer and users. Welcome to the second annual code with clot conference where Claude super fans come hoping to get a glimpse of the future. We're having a lot of fun. There's a ton of adrenaline. This is the first year we've grown faster than the exponential. In the first quarter of this year, we saw if you were to annualize it. ADX growth for you. I use Claude every day in the form of Claude code to do all sorts of stuff, not just right code. I write way more codes than I did five years ago. I've got the confidence of I don't know a 22 year old with DC money. I'm not 22. My friend invited me and it's been amazing as someone that's not really technical is I think it's really interesting just to see what everyone's working on was out there. I think the concerning part or the exciting part is, hey, they can do things that we couldn't dream of. And timelines we couldn't ever expect. But the kind of alternate side of that reality is, you really have to be prepared, because they will really be a thousand times more productive. All of this raises an obvious question. Will engineers be the first casualties of the AI they're building? What's been revenge of the nerds for a while? Is that over? I think we all become nerds. But what happens to the actual nerds? I think the actual nerds, well, they have to figure it out. I think for a lot of them, the skill that they had before is going to help them in the future. Because they sort of have a pretty big head start. They do a lot of things that are not coding. Engineers also have to talk to users. They have to plan. They have to think about what's next. So I think these are still parts of engineering that are going to stick around. Silicon Valley may have AI fever, but elsewhere, the mood is less upbeat. 70% of Americans think AI will kill jobs, and nearly a third worry, theirs will be one of them. Dario Amade has been outspoken about this issue, and some of his predictions don't exactly sound reassuring. I think we could have this very unusual combination of very fast GDP growth and high unemployment or at least under employment or, you know, low wage jobs, a lot of low wage jobs, high inequality. You've been really direct about job loss. AI could eliminate half of all entry-level white collar jobs in the next one to five years. That was a year ago. AI has moved incredibly fast. Is it still 50% or is it higher? I don't know exactly, but I'm still pretty concerned. I'm still the same order of concern. You know, we are seeing right now that AI is making people more productive, but that's the usual hump. You automate 90% of the job. Great, people are 10 times more productive in the other 10% because they're 10 times more leverage, but eventually it gets close to 100%. Now, the sequel to that is, well, then you have to find something else for them to do. Right now, AI makes a software engineer is more productive, even though AI writes all the code or almost all the code. But we're already starting to see the beginning of like, you know, there may be some people that it's not making more productive, that it's better for the AI to just do the thing. How does that sit with you? It's very uncomfortable. And I think this is the reason why I chose to go down for a book. And I think this is the reason that a lot of people here chose to go here is artificial intelligence is this force that is far bigger than we are. But here we can hopefully make it go a little bit better. Do you feel like it's your job to do something about that or is that someone else's problem? I think it's a thing that we have to talk about. We have to advocate for it. Ultimately, it's up to society to solve it. This is bigger than one company. There has been a lot of pushback on, you know, you're, and I know you've said you're trying to warn people, but that, you know, you're, you know, Jensen Huang said you're conflating tasks with jobs. AI is creating jobs. Anybody who's saying that AI is wiping out jobs is scaring people. Other folks have said this, you know, it's sort of doom marketing. That benefits anthropic. So I want to be really clear and push back hard against this. In every interview I talk about the possible ways to address these risks from tax and macroeconomic policy, to what the new jobs are. In the adolescence of technology, I have like five pages where I lay out the difference between tasks and jobs, why this time is different than other times. But social media, which I detest, which I detest as a category, people have these three three-second clips from a year ago, I've written much more carefully about these things where I talk about the risks. So these are, the idea that this is cheap marketing is itself cheap marketing. I think it's part of the disease of Silicon Valley. It's been caught up in this social media world of three seconds. And so my message is just definitely not doom is coming. My message is like, this is something that we should see coming, that we're worried about and that we need to actually respond to positively. Beyond the software industry, the potential impact of AI on jobs seems harder to predict. Anthropic has published a paper estimating which fields could make the most use of AI in the near future. If its predictions are right, management, finance, and legal jobs could soon look very different. Which jobs go away, who gets replaced, and what new jobs are created? So no one knows for sure. because, you know, the economy's unpredictable, right? The thing that we have going for us here is the pie is gonna expand a lot. And so because the pie is gonna expand a lot, there are probably going to be places where people can go. It's just a matter of finding them fast enough. So we play this out for me a little bit, you know, you wake up in five years, you know, what does this country look like? What are those people doing? Because if there's that much unemployment, is that not how revolution start? Yeah, no, this is the outcome we want to prevent. This is absolutely the outcome we want to prevent. I think there's a few places. None of them are guaranteed, we're not sure, but there's the physical world. You need a lot of more people to make, build, manufacture things in the physical world. Anything that's human-centered, I think that's gonna be a big deal, right? People are at least some people want to talk to humans. So these kind of human relationship-driven jobs like I think those are gonna be important. And I think there'll be some effort by the humans to kind of direct the AI's, right? At some level it has to be in line with someone's values and someone's intentions. And so I think there's gonna be some role there although I don't know how thin versus how thick it will be. I think I feel a little bit more hopeful that humans will continue to find ways to leverage AI, to be productive, to do the parts of the work that are meaningful to us that only humans can do. I think the human-to-human interaction will never fully go away. The example I often reach for is what will happen in medicine. Today, we hire doctors who are expert diagnosticians. I think AI is going to soon be pretty good at telling you what the suite of options of things that are wrong with you and what test to run and you won't need a doctor to do that. But an AI can't physically examine you and say, hey, does it hurt when I press here? They can't have a bedside manner with you that says, like, tell me how you're feeling about this. How are you coping with going through this process? And I think we're going to pivot something like medicine to be much more focused on the interpersonal because the diagnostic tools are going to become much better. But the interpersonal human part, that's not gonna change. Explain this to me. Daniela runs day-to-day operations all the leadership team reports to you. Yes, no one reports to you. That sounds like a pretty sweet job. It's incredibly freeing. It lets me do all the things that I do much more easily than I would otherwise, because she does all the work, is that what you're saying? Yeah, I'm just, if you, if you had to go through the things, I had to go through during DOW or Clay, no. The Amadeus Hope AI can have a utopian influence on society, but there's no denying the technology's destructive and dystopian potential. Anthropic is at the center of a technological arms race with powerful governments lying for control. Dario has charged head-on into the Serena. He's not afraid to blast his competitors. And then I think there are some players who, you know, who are yoloing, who pull the wrist dial too far and I'm very concerned. Who is yoloing? So that's a question I'm not going to answer. Or critique the U.S. government and anthropics-owned partners for selling AI chips to China. It's a bit like, you know, I don't know, like selling nuclear weapons to North Korea. I've been very outspoken about the need for export controls on chips to China. I say this because I think it would be really bad for America, for the state of democracy in the world, for China to be ahead in AI capabilities. And it's like some of the chip makers obviously don't agree with that view. But it hasn't stopped me from saying it even after we've signed more partnerships. I'm sure they wish we didn't say these things, but these things are what I believe. And so, you know, look, we're all adults here. We can work together on one thing while disagreeing about another thing. Amade's statements about geopolitics date back to his days at Caltech. As a sophomore physics student, he developed a reputation as an anti-war advocate who believed scientists shouldn't sit in ivory towers. It's a worldview that would later define anthropics position on the future of war. You've had a longstanding anti-war stance, And yet, you are one of the first AI companies to sign a contract with the Department of Defense to operate on classified networks. These are the networks that the US uses to fight wars. Explain that. Look, I mean, the world changes. Like, you know, my view of this technology, you know, when I'm very careful about, you know, scoping our engagements to things that we believe in. In 2025, Anthropic, along with OpenAI, XAI, and Google, won a $200 million contract with the Pentagon. Anthropic framed it as an opportunity to become the leading AI vendor for the government. Claude was reportedly used by the US military in the operation to seize Venezuelan president Nicolas Maduro. Weeks later, everything started to unravel. We bring you breaking news from Anthropic, the Department of Defense demand that Anthropic allow full use of its AI technology without guardrails. Anthropic drew red lines, refusing to let Claude be used for mass surveillance and autonomous weapons, putting the company on a collision course with the Pentagon. The tech giant facing a deadline today to accept conditions will be blacklisted. There's a commercial entity have the right to determine how their products are used by the military. Lawsuits were filed, and Anthropic was banned from the Pentagon, underscored by strong words from President Trump and Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth. Anthropic is run by an ideological lunatic who shouldn't have a soul decision making of what we do. Do you mind being called an ideological lunatic or a bunch of left wing nut jobs? You know, I've been called worse things than that all the time. What is winning this fight actually look like? I won't even call it a fight. This is more a debate about what the proper use of AI by the government is. And AI is an emerging new technology. We don't understand the ways in which it's reliable or unreliable. We don't understand the ways in which it promotes our values or undermines our values. And so one of the things that I thought was important was to establish a precedent on some of the use cases we think are good, which frankly is most of them. And some of the use cases that we're concerned about. A U.S. official has said, with the help of LLM, the U.S. military has gone from being able to hit a thousand targets a day to 5,000 targets a day. That means Claude can help kill more people more quickly. Are you comfortable with that? Basically, you're asking like, do you believe in this country, right? Do you want this country to be a more powerful actor rather than a less powerful actor on the world stage? I do. I'm a patriot. It's not up to me. If we provide a technology, it's not up to us to say, you can do this military operation and you can't do that military operation. Now, I might privately believe that this military operation makes sense and that military operation is a bad idea, but we're not going to deny the technology. You basically have to, you know, you have to leave policy in the hands of the military decision makers. Bloomberg has reported that Claude is being used by the U.S. military in the war in Iran to do AI-assisted targeting via a platform made by Palantir Mavin Smart System. In February, U.S. missile reportedly hit a girl school in Iran, killing more than 150 people, most of them children. Did Claude play a role in that strike? We don't know exactly how, you know, these models were used, you know, obviously, like, you know, these things that, you know, mistakes that happen in warfare are really, really terrible, like this is a really terrible thing to happen. We were willing to risk the future of our company to, like, limit how, you know, these models are used, and, you know, what you're talking about is a use case that doesn't even violate our headlines. We're worried that there will be 100 times as much, you know, with use cases that do violate our red lines. Now, you know, again, I would say, I think, overall, the use of these models is appropriate. I think it's good on net, you know, but military decision-makers make terrible mistakes. Even at the best of times, and I don't know if we're in the best of times, what we've You've seen here is clawed assists, but a human makes the final call. So a human made that final call, not clawed. Imagine if you had a world in which not clawed because we haven't allowed it, but someone else's AI model, the AI model just makes the decision and the human never sees it. That's what we were standing up for. That's what we were fighting against. This school had a website you could have found it in a Google search. Like, shouldn't clawed have spotted that? And it doesn't speak to a scarier issue about using technology as a shortcut in war. The principle that was obeyed here is a human makes the human makes the final decision. I don't know what role Claude or any other AI had, but like, if this isn't an illustration, why that principle is so important, I don't know what is. Is AI warfare more likely to stop World War III, a war between the U.S. and China, or is it more likely to make it happen? I would say on balance, it is more likely to stop it, But if we have no limits on how it's used, then I think it could be more likely to cause it. You've seen Dr. Strange love, right? The premise of it was like, you know, you have a doomsday device that automatically fires nuclear weapons when it thinks nuclear weapons are being fired at it. What could go wrong, right? I think the way conflicts happen is that the two sides jump at each other. They misunderstand each other. And when we don't have proper oversight of this technology, I think those kinds of accidents are more likely to happen. Now I think if AI is used in an appropriate way and not even warfare, but think of just intelligence collection, let's say we're able to predict an invasion of Taiwan or a new movement in Ukraine, our adversaries will think twice about conducting some kind of invasion or military operation if we know everything that they're doing. AI's role on the battlefield raises difficult questions. and for a company willing to debate the ethical dilemmas of its own technology. It's a conversation Amade seems eager to have in public. How do you handle the pressure? I try very hard to communicate and always be straightforward and honest. I get up in front of the company every two weeks and just talk for an hour about just what's on my mind, what's going on in the industry, what's going on in the outside world. It's totally uncensored and not only does it build trust, it's very freeing for me. where I feel that I have 3,000 people who are on the same page as me, that is an incredible amplifier and is one of the most useful things in handling the pressure. Then when we have to confront an external challenge, stand up to some very difficult situations that we've seen in the last few months, that is what allows us to have a consistent and coherent position. And I think it's an incredible advantage because I never feel like I'm alone. lurking in the background at Anthropics headquarters with the surprise development of a new AI model called Mythos. A model so powerful, it's booked everyone. I'm sure it's making headlines almost on a weekly basis. Most notably now around Mythos. The company believes it's this enormous threat. Imagine a world where everyone had a nuclear bazooka-based one. Mythos identified thousands of cybersecurity vulnerabilities, exposing potential flaws in every major operating system, Anthropic signaled that if fully released, mythos could hack banks, pry open state secrets, and cripple critical infrastructure. I think the thing that surprised me most about it was the models had been climbing in their ability to find vulnerabilities. It was a particularly large jump. Some of the early companies that we gave this to said things like, this is a super weapon. You should have to own a gun license to use it. Please don't release this. In an initiative called Project Glasswing, Anthropic gave select organizations access to mythos. Even federal agencies like the National Security Administration clamored to use it, despite Anthropic's black listing by the Pentagon. I think the future is this kind of cat and mouse game, where we need to make sure that the good guys have the tools that they need to defend. And then at some point, the bad guys will have a two. And at that point, we have to make sure the good guys have even better models so they can be ready for this. Is it possible to stay ahead of the bad guys? Really though? That's what we hope. The criticism is you're effectively deciding who gets access and who doesn't. Why should anyone be comfortable with that kind of concentration of power? It wasn't like, oh, it's so powerful and let's decide who gets the power. It was a very specific concern around cybersecurity. And so the way that we decided who to give the model to was grounded in that specific fear. There's obviously nuance to decide like where do you draw that circle? I think that's really complicated. I think we've tried to be as publicly open as possible to say we're trying our best to make this decision well but like we might not do it perfectly. What about the folks who say this was just good marketing? You know, we have suffered enormously commercially from not releasing this model. This model has incredibly accelerated research within Anthropic and production and next models. It would do the same in the outside world if we were to release it. This has hurt us enormously commercially. Have you had to make trade-offs already that you're not entirely comfortable with? Throughout the entire history of Anthropic, has been trade-offs, right? In some ideal world you would prefer to, before you release the first chatbot, you could spend years studying every possible thing that could go wrong with it. Now we did delay. We did delay the initial release of Clawed, but we did it for a few months, so everything is a trade-off. And now that we're in, you know, what I would describe as a commercially leading position, we can afford to move the dial even further toward being careful, right? That's what the mythos release was about, right? It's very hard to do something like that if you're not the leading player. There's this argument, why wouldn't the government take you over? Why would they let a private company control technology that's so powerful? So I think, I actually think that's a very serious question and I share those concerns. I don't think the government should outright take us over. Every previous powerful technology we've seen in history was either built by the government or originated with the government. So nuclear weapons, obviously, initially built by the government. The internet, GPS, cell phones, AI is the first technology that's been built in the private sector. And where government has not really had a serious role and is coming in late to the game, I think that's actually a dangerous and unstable situation. It is not the situation I would have chosen. This technology, I'm scared of companies having it, but I'm also scared of government having it. And then we need basic regulation of the technology. More and more, as I've seen what we've seen with Mythos, I think we need to start doing pre-release testing, required pre-release testing, testing and auditing of the models. This was an approach the White House rejected initially. On his first day back in office, President Trump, with the help of former AI and cryptozard David Sachs, dismantled President Biden's AI executive order seeking guardrails. Instead, favoring a hands-off, let Silicon Valley do its thing approach. We believe that excessive regulation of the AI sector could kill a transformative industry just as it's taking off. But with mythos and its national security implications proving hard to ignore, the White House now seems to want to gatekeep the world's most powerful AI. It's very funny to me how there's a particular group of people in the tech world in Silicon Valley. They started with a position of like, you know, even having transparency around this technology, even export control. You know, this is all, you know, just totally, it'll apocalypticly destroy our potential to create the technology, it'll kill innovation. And then as soon as they see the first real danger, which I've been expecting all along, there's all this talk of like nationalization and the government should just seize it. Come on folks, you're yo-yoing from like the most extreme anti-regulatory, if you look at us the wrong way or destroying the industry to, you know, this completely communist, the government should grab it all. We need a more sensible, moderate approach. That's the one we've been favoring all along because we've understood the power of this technology, we're not panicking, we're not denying it, we see the smooth exponential and we're responding to it appropriately. The reaction to AI right now, it's intense. Anthropic has built this really loyal following. There are some people who just love what they stand for, but they've also been protests right outside their office. There's a lot of anxiety, a lot of confusion, there's some real anger right now about what's happening and it actually feels like it's escalating. Artificial intelligence is the next industrial revolution. If you look at the data, people are more concerned than excited about what's going on. They think the risks outweigh the benefits and the truth is if you talk to the people who are building this, even they will tell you they don't fully know how it's all going to play out. How do you think about about the weight of this moment. I worry that something will go wrong. You know, are we doing literally everything we can? We're certainly trying our best. We're certainly trying very hard. What I want is to create a situation where if this set of people can't do it, it couldn't be done. You can't guarantee success, but maybe you can guarantee that. It's getting personal. Sam Altman's home down the street has been attacked. How is that affecting you? It was really scary to read that. I mean, it was, we were obviously extremely relieved that he and his family were okay. In general, I think this is a time, technologically, politically, we're unfortunately, there's just a lot more rhetoric and words that I think can lead to bad outcomes and bad things happening. I hope that this is a topic we can all just debate as peacefully as possible. It was scary to me too. I mean, this is like a less savory aspect of the exponential, right? That as AI gets more and more of a big thing, like it becomes just such a big deal to society. There's more attention on it. There's been massive backlash against social media. Countries are starting to ban it. Could that happen to AI? I think it's absolutely possible if the social media companies could go back in time and see the world that they see today, would they do anything differently? I like to think the answer to that is yes, I don't know. If we sort of project some of the challenges that the social media companies have faced around child welfare, mental health, election integrity, all of these topics were really lucky that we're second. We view it as our job to try and proactively think about all of the things that could go wrong because if we don't, who's going to? You know, I don't know that they actually set out to do the right thing or make the world a better place. And so I don't think if they were going back, they would even knowing what they do. And they certainly should do things differently. I don't know that they actually will. But we can't. This is why we're trying to get this right, the first time, instead of waiting for things to go wrong, then scrambling to justify why it's all OK. The main way I could see AI being banned or blocked is if something really went wrong. And if something really went wrong, then maybe it deserves to be. You have technologists saying, it's been amazing. And others saying, it could be awful. Where are you on that spectrum? I hope the best, but plan for the worst. For me, this is the most important work I've ever done. For some people, it feels like this is the last job because it could mean the end of work. And I think for other people, it's maybe it's not the last job, but it's existential to get this right. And so there's just this kind of burden. If the impacts could be as significant as we're talking about, as significant as Anthropic has warned about, what responsibility do you think Anthropic has to cushion the blow? What do you owe the people whose lives you've abandoned? I think our view has always been, we ultimately are responsible as an industry, the industry that's developing this technology for thinking through what are the risks, what are the bad things that could happen? And if some of those things come to pass, what is our role in helping to fix that? That is our job, right? We should not just say, well, we were just trying to grow the product And suddenly, there's an entire generation of young women who have eating disorders or who have mental health problems because whoops, we were just trying to grow the product. That's not the stance that I think any technology company should take. I don't think that's the stance that we're trying to take. For a company whose identity is so wrapped up in... We want to do this right. We exist as an AI safety company. How can we just help all of this go well? It can be hard to understand why Anthropic is pushing so hard to advance AI while being so upfront about the dangers. In his essays, Dario lays out what the end game looks like if everything goes right with AI, a utopian future where machines and humans work side-by-side. AI and inevitable force steered toward prosperity rather than catastrophe. To mitigate the devastation of job loss, he proposes solutions like universal basic income and progressive taxation of AI companies. But as the amenities confront the messy realities of power, politics, and profit, The real test is whether that founding mission can survive the scale of what they're building. Google started with the motto, don't be evil, a founding promise the company quietly retired as it grew. You are building something incredibly powerful and stand to gain enormously from it. Why should we trust you? I think starting from a position of distrust, you know, if you don't know anything about me, if you don't know anything about it inthropic is pretty rational. I think Silicon Valley has lost a lot of the world's trust and kind of has to re-earn it. And the message, you know, we're trying to send is we're actually different. And that has to be earned in things that we actually do. I understand one of your favorite books is the Making of the Atomic Bomb. That is correct. Do you see parallels between yourself and Oppenheimer? The figure I most identified with was Leo Zillard, who was the one who first had the idea that there could be a chain reaction. Look, my view is we're not gonna get through this with like larger than life personalities or like figures who try and be at the center of everything. In some ways actually see Oppenheimer as a failure case as what should not happen. There's a lot of powerful actors who have interest here and the only way it can end well for everyone is if there's basically checks and balances everywhere. You've said there's roughly a 10 to 25% chance of civilizational collapse. That is not insignificant. Is there a scenario where it's something that anthropic built that caused that? I mean, I certainly hope not. My view is that that probability comes from the very straightforward recipe of the technology, the existence of many countries in the world, the existence of many companies within an economy, and new ones created if the void isn't filled, like that's the dilemma that we're in. Half of what we do within the company is trying, you know, reduce the risk as much as we can, but it's never gonna be zero. Suppose there are a bunch of, you know, airline companies out there and you're like, well, I'm gonna make an airline company that's safer. It can both be the case that, you know, your airline company is 10 times safer than all the other airline companies, but if someone comes and asks you like, can you guarantee that your airplane will never crash? I mean, how could you possibly? But if there was a 25% chance of an airplane crashing, you wouldn't get on that plane. That's right, 25% is too high. We're trying to make that probability much, much lower. That's, that is, that is the goal. How do you find yours then? How do you relax? You know, honestly, a lot of it's just exposure to it. You know, sometimes I'll just like, you know, I'll just take a weekend and I'll like play some video games, sometimes with Daniela. Me and my wife go to Italy sometimes. We have a horse there, so I'll just sit there next. I'll just, I'll just look at our horse and I'll be like, you know, Clipso who's her horse like, you know, she doesn't know about any of this like she's just a happy horse like
