Timestamp: 2025-10-27T21:01:39.869160
Title: Give me 20 minutes and I'll change your TRADING forever!
URL: https://youtube.com/watch?v=ifJjsElRRGk&si=UOXV1vAYFiVqEMZN
Status: success
Duration: 18:18

Description:
好的，这是对所提供文本的深度提炼与总结。

### **一、核心思想结构化摘要**

**I. 核心论点：颠覆传统交易认知**
*   **A. 图表不赚钱**：真正的盈利关键不在于图表分析技术本身。图表只是反映历史，不具备预测未来的能力。将交易系统（如图表分析）与交易策略（如何赚钱）分离开是关键的“顿悟时刻”。
*   **B. 交易是50/50的游戏**：必须从根本上接受任何一笔交易都有50%的概率盈利，50%的概率亏损。试图追求超高胜率是业余交易者的误区。

**II. 业余交易者的错误路径**
*   **A. 胜率陷阱**：痴迷于赢得大多数交易。这通常导致交易者为了赚取蝇头小利（如$50）而承担巨大风险（如$1000），最终一笔大的亏损就会摧毁所有利润。
*   **B. 缺乏商业计划**：没有将交易视为一门严肃的生意来对待，缺乏明确的资金管理、风险控制和盈利目标规划，仅凭感觉和冲动行事。
*   **C. 心理失控**：被恐惧和贪婪主导。亏损的痛苦远大于盈利的喜悦，导致交易者做出非理性决策，如过早止盈、移动止损、扛单等。

**III. 专业交易者的正确框架**
*   **A. 基石：商业计划（Business Plan）**：像经营企业一样交易，拥有明确的规则和长远规划。
*   **B. 核心：严格的风险管理（Risk Management）**
    1.  **固定风险**：每笔交易只承担账户总额的一个固定小比例（如1%）的风险，确保即使连续亏损也不会出局。
    2.  **非对称回报**：追求“以小博大”，确保潜在盈利远大于潜在亏损。一笔成功的交易可以覆盖多笔失败交易的损失。
*   **C. 关键：心理与情绪控制（Psychology & Mindset）**
    1.  **接受亏损**：将亏损视为交易的必要成本，学会“为了赢而输”。
    2.  **保持耐心**：等待符合自己交易计划的高质量机会，而不是每天盲目交易。
    3.  **情绪分离**：将自我价值与单次交易结果分离开，以清晰的头脑执行计划。

### **二、核心结论（一句话）**

成功的交易并非依赖于预测市场或追求高胜率，而是通过将交易视为一门生意，执行严格的风险管理策略并掌握强大的心理控制能力，从而实现长期、可持续的盈利。

### **三、内容的总览框架**

该内容提出了一个**以“心理和风险管理”为核心的专业交易成功框架**。它批判了业界普遍存在的“技术分析至上”和“高胜率迷信”的错误观念，强调了交易成功的真正支柱是三大要素的结合：**1. 简单的交易系统（Simple System）**作为执行框架，**2. 严格的风险管理（Strict Risk Management）**作为生存命脉，以及 **3. 成熟的交易心理（Mature Psychology）**作为最终的决定性因素。整个框架旨在引导交易者从一个冲动的“赌徒”转变为一个有计划、有纪律的“生意人”。

### **四、核心概念关系图（Mermaid）**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    A["交易思维转变 (Mindset Shift)"]

    subgraph "错误路径：业余交易者"
        direction LR
        B["迷信图表与高胜率"] --> C["情绪化交易 (恐惧/贪婪)"]
        C --> D["风险管理混乱 (赚小亏大)"]
        D --> E["账户爆仓/失败"]
    end

    subgraph "正确路径：专业交易者"
        direction LR
        F["视交易为生意 (Business Plan)"] --> G["核心支柱：严格风险管理"]
        G -- "1. 固定风险 (如1%)" --> H["2. 追求非对称回报"]
        F --> I["基础框架：简化交易系统"]
        I -- "顺势/区间/突破" --> J["图表仅提供交易结构"]
        F --> K["成功关键：强大心理控制"]
        K -- "接受50/50概率" --> L["管理恐惧，保持耐心"]
        H & L & J --> M["长期可持续盈利"]
    end

    A -- "错误方向" --> B
    A -- "正确方向" --> F

    style A fill:#F9F7D8,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#333
    style E fill:#FFB6C1,stroke:#D80000,stroke-width:2px,color:#333
    style M fill:#90EE90,stroke:#006400,stroke-width:2px,color:#333
    style B fill:#FFDDC1,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333
    style C fill:#FFDDC1,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333
    style D fill:#FFDDC1,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333
    style F fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333
    style G fill:#BDECB6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333
    style I fill:#BDECB6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333
    style K fill:#BDECB6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333
    style H fill:#E0FFFF,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333
    style J fill:#E0FFFF,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333
    style L fill:#E0FFFF,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333
    
    linkStyle 8 stroke:#D80000,stroke-width:2px,stroke-dasharray: 5 5
    linkStyle 9 stroke:#006400,stroke-width:2px
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
I'm about to change the way you think, I'm about to change the way you think, about trading forever. Why? I've been, about trading forever. Why? I've been, about trading forever. Why? I've been, doing this a long time, 33 years. And in, doing this a long time, 33 years. And in, doing this a long time, 33 years. And in, that time, I found a few aha moments. I, that time, I found a few aha moments. I, that time, I found a few aha moments. I, made a few mistakes and I did a few, made a few mistakes and I did a few, made a few mistakes and I did a few, things right and I did a few things, things right and I did a few things, things right and I did a few things, wrong. What I'm going to show you is all, wrong. What I'm going to show you is all, wrong. What I'm going to show you is all, those things that you need to do, those things that you need to do, those things that you need to do, condensed into this tiny little time, condensed into this tiny little time, condensed into this tiny little time, period that's going to show you how you, period that's going to show you how you, period that's going to show you how you, can trade and how you can make a profit., can trade and how you can make a profit., can trade and how you can make a profit., I'm going to change your mindset on, I'm going to change your mindset on, I'm going to change your mindset on, trading forever because the way you've, trading forever because the way you've, trading forever because the way you've, been thinking up till now might just not, been thinking up till now might just not, been thinking up till now might just not, be the way you actually need to think, be the way you actually need to think, be the way you actually need to think, about trading. It's a completely, about trading. It's a completely, about trading. It's a completely, different ball game. These charts are, different ball game. These charts are, different ball game. These charts are, not going to make you money. And that's, not going to make you money. And that's, not going to make you money. And that's, the important part. Trading is a 50/50, the important part. Trading is a 50/50, the important part. Trading is a 50/50, game. Do you know I had a comment that, game. Do you know I had a comment that, game. Do you know I had a comment that, basically someone said to me, "What a, basically someone said to me, "What a, basically someone said to me, "What a, fool I am because I'm telling you that, fool I am because I'm telling you that, fool I am because I'm telling you that, trading is 50/50 because I win more than, trading is 50/50 because I win more than, trading is 50/50 because I win more than, 50% of my trades. I've never lost more, 50% of my trades. I've never lost more, 50% of my trades. I've never lost more, than 50% of my trades because I am a, than 50% of my trades because I am a, than 50% of my trades because I am a, genius is what I heard. The end of the, genius is what I heard. The end of the, genius is what I heard. The end of the, day, it's easy to win more than 50% of, day, it's easy to win more than 50% of, day, it's easy to win more than 50% of, your trades. It's actually trading is, your trades. It's actually trading is, your trades. It's actually trading is, not as hard as you think. But the, not as hard as you think. But the, not as hard as you think. But the, problem comes in with your mindset, your, problem comes in with your mindset, your, problem comes in with your mindset, your, psychology, and your fear and managing, psychology, and your fear and managing, psychology, and your fear and managing, those trades. Now, if you are trading, those trades. Now, if you are trading, those trades. Now, if you are trading, and you don't have a proper plan, you, and you don't have a proper plan, you, and you don't have a proper plan, you, don't have a proper business plan, and, don't have a proper business plan, and, don't have a proper business plan, and, you're just in there trading and trying, you're just in there trading and trying, you're just in there trading and trying, to make money and sculping and making, to make money and sculping and making, to make money and sculping and making, $50 and risking $1,000, you can win most, $50 and risking $1,000, you can win most, $50 and risking $1,000, you can win most, of your trades. But if you've got proper, of your trades. But if you've got proper, of your trades. But if you've got proper, targets and proper stop- losses and, targets and proper stop- losses and, targets and proper stop- losses and, proper management, you're never going to, proper management, you're never going to, proper management, you're never going to, win more than 50% of your trades. In, win more than 50% of your trades. In, win more than 50% of your trades. In, other words, you're not trading, other words, you're not trading, other words, you're not trading, correctly. You're making a fool of, correctly. You're making a fool of, correctly. You're making a fool of, yourself. But anyway, that's beside the, yourself. But anyway, that's beside the, yourself. But anyway, that's beside the, point. For those of you who don't know, point. For those of you who don't know, point. For those of you who don't know, me, I'm Rob. For those of you who do, me, I'm Rob. For those of you who do, me, I'm Rob. For those of you who do, know me, I am still Rob and it's Coffee, know me, I am still Rob and it's Coffee, know me, I am still Rob and it's Coffee, with Rob., with Rob., with Rob., What we're going to do, we'll go to the, What we're going to do, we'll go to the, What we're going to do, we'll go to the, charts and I'll quickly show you the, charts and I'll quickly show you the, charts and I'll quickly show you the, charting system. We'll go over the, charting system. We'll go over the, charting system. We'll go over the, charting system in simplicity. This, charting system in simplicity. This, charting system in simplicity. This, system you need to separate from the, system you need to separate from the, system you need to separate from the, strategy. And the aha moment that I'm, strategy. And the aha moment that I'm, strategy. And the aha moment that I'm, going to show you today is that charts, going to show you today is that charts, going to show you today is that charts, don't make you money. I'm going to, don't make you money. I'm going to, don't make you money. I'm going to, change your trading mindset forever cuz, change your trading mindset forever cuz, change your trading mindset forever cuz, I'm going to point out to you that, I'm going to point out to you that, I'm going to point out to you that, charts are not what makes you the money, charts are not what makes you the money, charts are not what makes you the money, in the markets. After the charts, I'm, in the markets. After the charts, I'm, in the markets. After the charts, I'm, going to take you and show you what, going to take you and show you what, going to take you and show you what, actually makes you the money in the, actually makes you the money in the, actually makes you the money in the, markets because trading is 50/50. Every, markets because trading is 50/50. Every, markets because trading is 50/50. Every, single trade you take has got a chance, single trade you take has got a chance, single trade you take has got a chance, of winning and every single trade you, of winning and every single trade you, of winning and every single trade you, take has got a chance of losing. It's an, take has got a chance of losing. It's an, take has got a chance of losing. It's an, unfortunate thing in the market, but it, unfortunate thing in the market, but it, unfortunate thing in the market, but it, is what it is. We can't change it. we, is what it is. We can't change it. we, is what it is. We can't change it. we, can't do anything about it. You just, can't do anything about it. You just, can't do anything about it. You just, have to accept that's what trading is, have to accept that's what trading is, have to accept that's what trading is, about. But if you don't want to, there's, about. But if you don't want to, there's, about. But if you don't want to, there's, nothing I can do to change your mind at, nothing I can do to change your mind at, nothing I can do to change your mind at, the end of the day. So, we'll go to the, the end of the day. So, we'll go to the, the end of the day. So, we'll go to the, charts and we'll have a look at that., charts and we'll have a look at that., charts and we'll have a look at that., After the charts, I'm going to go over, After the charts, I'm going to go over, After the charts, I'm going to go over, the fact that trading is risky. If you, the fact that trading is risky. If you, the fact that trading is risky. If you, don't like risk and you don't like, don't like risk and you don't like, don't like risk and you don't like, losing money, you probably shouldn't be, losing money, you probably shouldn't be, losing money, you probably shouldn't be, trading. Why is trading so risky? What's, trading. Why is trading so risky? What's, trading. Why is trading so risky? What's, it all about? You see, it's all about, it all about? You see, it's all about, it all about? You see, it's all about, the leverage. Now, I was once told as a, the leverage. Now, I was once told as a, the leverage. Now, I was once told as a, young man, Rob, you can't time the, young man, Rob, you can't time the, young man, Rob, you can't time the, market or you have to have time in the, market or you have to have time in the, market or you have to have time in the, market. You can't time the market. You, market. You can't time the market. You, market. You can't time the market. You, have to have time in the market. You, have to have time in the market. You, have to have time in the market. You, can't time the market. Nobody can time, can't time the market. Nobody can time, can't time the market. Nobody can time, the market. As much as you think you, the market. As much as you think you, the market. As much as you think you, can, as much as you think you're, can, as much as you think you're, can, as much as you think you're, brilliant, as much as you think you've, brilliant, as much as you think you've, brilliant, as much as you think you've, got some mathematical equation that will, got some mathematical equation that will, got some mathematical equation that will, somehow time the market, guess what? You, somehow time the market, guess what? You, somehow time the market, guess what? You, don't have a predictive capability. The, don't have a predictive capability. The, don't have a predictive capability. The, charts don't have a predictive, charts don't have a predictive, charts don't have a predictive, capability. Nobody has got a predictive, capability. Nobody has got a predictive, capability. Nobody has got a predictive, capability. What you're doing with, capability. What you're doing with, capability. What you're doing with, charts is you're looking at what, charts is you're looking at what, charts is you're looking at what, happened in the past will all likely, happened in the past will all likely, happened in the past will all likely, happen again in the future. That's what, happen again in the future. That's what, happen again in the future. That's what, charts are all about. Let me take you to, charts are all about. Let me take you to, charts are all about. Let me take you to, the charts. Let me show you on the, the charts. Let me show you on the, the charts. Let me show you on the, charts the simple system for taking, charts the simple system for taking, charts the simple system for taking, trades. Then we can go and talk a little, trades. Then we can go and talk a little, trades. Then we can go and talk a little, bit further about this strange strategy, bit further about this strange strategy, bit further about this strange strategy, thing. Come on, let's go. Let's go. Have, thing. Come on, let's go. Let's go. Have, thing. Come on, let's go. Let's go. Have, a look at the charts. Let's go. Here we, a look at the charts. Let's go. Here we, a look at the charts. Let's go. Here we, are on the charts. We're looking at the, are on the charts. We're looking at the, are on the charts. We're looking at the, charts and we're thinking, we need to, charts and we're thinking, we need to, charts and we're thinking, we need to, take a trade here. This particular, take a trade here. This particular, take a trade here. This particular, trade, for example, has done relatively, trade, for example, has done relatively, trade, for example, has done relatively, well. Bullish, bullish, bullish, well. Bullish, bullish, bullish, well. Bullish, bullish, bullish, bullish, bullish, bullish. Probably, bullish, bullish, bullish. Probably, bullish, bullish, bullish. Probably, bullish forever. This is the S&amp;P 500 as, bullish forever. This is the S&amp;P 500 as, bullish forever. This is the S&amp;P 500 as, it stands at the moment. You might be, it stands at the moment. You might be, it stands at the moment. You might be, watching this video in a year's time, watching this video in a year's time, watching this video in a year's time, when the S&amp;P 500 has crashed into hell, when the S&amp;P 500 has crashed into hell, when the S&amp;P 500 has crashed into hell, and it's gone. Or you might be watching, and it's gone. Or you might be watching, and it's gone. Or you might be watching, it right now and it's still going quite, it right now and it's still going quite, it right now and it's still going quite, well. Just depends when you're watching, well. Just depends when you're watching, well. Just depends when you're watching, the video. By the time you watch this, the video. By the time you watch this, the video. By the time you watch this, video, the SNP might be at 7,000, video, the SNP might be at 7,000, video, the SNP might be at 7,000, 10,000. Who knows? It'll be in a, 10,000. Who knows? It'll be in a, 10,000. Who knows? It'll be in a, completely different place. But for now, completely different place. But for now, completely different place. But for now, let's have a look at what we've actually, let's have a look at what we've actually, let's have a look at what we've actually, got here. Now, it's very important to, got here. Now, it's very important to, got here. Now, it's very important to, understand we trade three ways. We trade, understand we trade three ways. We trade, understand we trade three ways. We trade, with the trend, we trade in a range, with the trend, we trade in a range, with the trend, we trade in a range, which is between these lines, the, which is between these lines, the, which is between these lines, the, resistance and support, or we counter, resistance and support, or we counter, resistance and support, or we counter, trade or we break our trade or break, trade or we break our trade or break, trade or we break our trade or break, down trade is counter trading. So in, down trade is counter trading. So in, down trade is counter trading. So in, other words, if it breaks down from the, other words, if it breaks down from the, other words, if it breaks down from the, support, that would be a breakdown, support, that would be a breakdown, support, that would be a breakdown, trade. If it breaks up through, trade. If it breaks up through, trade. If it breaks up through, resistance, it's a breakout trade. If it, resistance, it's a breakout trade. If it, resistance, it's a breakout trade. If it, breaks through the trends, it's a, breaks through the trends, it's a, breaks through the trends, it's a, counter trade. It's counter trading the, counter trade. It's counter trading the, counter trade. It's counter trading the, actual trend that we're in. And those, actual trend that we're in. And those, actual trend that we're in. And those, are the three ways that we trade., are the three ways that we trade., are the three ways that we trade., There's no other way or need or you, There's no other way or need or you, There's no other way or need or you, don't need indicators. You don't need, don't need indicators. You don't need, don't need indicators. You don't need, other systems. You don't need all these, other systems. You don't need all these, other systems. You don't need all these, fancy fan angle things. And you don't, fancy fan angle things. And you don't, fancy fan angle things. And you don't, need 100 screens on the on the wall. You, need 100 screens on the on the wall. You, need 100 screens on the on the wall. You, basically need one monitor. You need a, basically need one monitor. You need a, basically need one monitor. You need a, laptop. You need a mobile phone., laptop. You need a mobile phone., laptop. You need a mobile phone., Whatever you feel comfortable with., Whatever you feel comfortable with., Whatever you feel comfortable with., Having 40 screens on the wall is not, Having 40 screens on the wall is not, Having 40 screens on the wall is not, going to make you a better trader. In, going to make you a better trader. In, going to make you a better trader. In, fact, it's going to make you a lesser, fact, it's going to make you a lesser, fact, it's going to make you a lesser, trader. Cuz if you look at a scenario, trader. Cuz if you look at a scenario, trader. Cuz if you look at a scenario, where you are looking for a trade, you, where you are looking for a trade, you, where you are looking for a trade, you, can put a few screens up on your on your, can put a few screens up on your on your, can put a few screens up on your on your, charts and you can have a look at what, charts and you can have a look at what, charts and you can have a look at what, you've got. You can put more than nine., you've got. You can put more than nine., you've got. You can put more than nine., You can put, you know, as many as you, You can put, you know, as many as you, You can put, you know, as many as you, can see. But if you've got too many, can see. But if you've got too many, can see. But if you've got too many, indicators on them, you won't see them, indicators on them, you won't see them, indicators on them, you won't see them, will you? You won't be able to even see, will you? You won't be able to even see, will you? You won't be able to even see, the charts. So, what we look at is I'll, the charts. So, what we look at is I'll, the charts. So, what we look at is I'll, look at a chart like this and I'll look, look at a chart like this and I'll look, look at a chart like this and I'll look, for the top. There's a double top. I'll, for the top. There's a double top. I'll, for the top. There's a double top. I'll, look at the the resistance. And then, look at the the resistance. And then, look at the the resistance. And then, I'll look at the bottom. Where's the, I'll look at the bottom. Where's the, I'll look at the bottom. Where's the, support? And then I'll find the range, support? And then I'll find the range, support? And then I'll find the range, for it and then I'll see if it's in, for it and then I'll see if it's in, for it and then I'll see if it's in, trend. So, this one you're trading in, trend. So, this one you're trading in, trend. So, this one you're trading in, the trend. Every time it comes off the, the trend. Every time it comes off the, the trend. Every time it comes off the, support, you're buying because it's, support, you're buying because it's, support, you're buying because it's, overall bullish. So, what you'll do is, overall bullish. So, what you'll do is, overall bullish. So, what you'll do is, maybe go up to the daily and see what, maybe go up to the daily and see what, maybe go up to the daily and see what, the daily is doing. Maybe go up to the, the daily is doing. Maybe go up to the, the daily is doing. Maybe go up to the, weekly and see what the weekly is doing., weekly and see what the weekly is doing., weekly and see what the weekly is doing., Oo, the weekly looks really bullish, Oo, the weekly looks really bullish, Oo, the weekly looks really bullish, there. Now you look at the chart, take, there. Now you look at the chart, take, there. Now you look at the chart, take, it back to the 4 hour, which we're, it back to the 4 hour, which we're, it back to the 4 hour, which we're, trading on. Why do I trade on the 4, trading on. Why do I trade on the 4, trading on. Why do I trade on the 4, hour? Because the 4hour makes it relaxed, hour? Because the 4hour makes it relaxed, hour? Because the 4hour makes it relaxed, for me. The 5 minute charts, I'm sitting, for me. The 5 minute charts, I'm sitting, for me. The 5 minute charts, I'm sitting, there watching charts all day or trying, there watching charts all day or trying, there watching charts all day or trying, to keep take trades or I don't have to, to keep take trades or I don't have to, to keep take trades or I don't have to, do that. With a 4 hour, I can put a, do that. With a 4 hour, I can put a, do that. With a 4 hour, I can put a, position in, just leave it there, come, position in, just leave it there, come, position in, just leave it there, come, back later on. Very easy. All you got to, back later on. Very easy. All you got to, back later on. Very easy. All you got to, do is pick a trade and say, I want to go, do is pick a trade and say, I want to go, do is pick a trade and say, I want to go, long here. And the example would be, long here. And the example would be, long here. And the example would be, simple. All I'm going to do is I'm going, simple. All I'm going to do is I'm going, simple. All I'm going to do is I'm going, to say I want to go long on this trade., to say I want to go long on this trade., to say I want to go long on this trade., How do I go long on this trade? First, How do I go long on this trade? First, How do I go long on this trade? First, thing I'm going to do is pick my stop, thing I'm going to do is pick my stop, thing I'm going to do is pick my stop, loss. So I'm going to say I want to put, loss. So I'm going to say I want to put, loss. So I'm going to say I want to put, my stop loss at 6690 because if the, my stop loss at 6690 because if the, my stop loss at 6690 because if the, trade gets to 6690, my trade is no, trade gets to 6690, my trade is no, trade gets to 6690, my trade is no, longer valid. So then I put my stop, longer valid. So then I put my stop, longer valid. So then I put my stop, loss, let's say 66.90. So what I'll do, loss, let's say 66.90. So what I'll do, loss, let's say 66.90. So what I'll do, is I'll type in here 6690 cuz that's, is I'll type in here 6690 cuz that's, is I'll type in here 6690 cuz that's, where I want my stop loss and determine, where I want my stop loss and determine, where I want my stop loss and determine, how much my stop loss would be. Now, how much my stop loss would be. Now, how much my stop loss would be. Now, what I want to do is risk 1% on my, what I want to do is risk 1% on my, what I want to do is risk 1% on my, account here, which is this is a $25,000, account here, which is this is a $25,000, account here, which is this is a $25,000, account. It's not a massive account, account. It's not a massive account, account. It's not a massive account, this one. I've got many accounts. This, this one. I've got many accounts. This, this one. I've got many accounts. This, is a $25,000 account. So, the reason I, is a $25,000 account. So, the reason I, is a $25,000 account. So, the reason I, risk 1% per trade, you can risk any, risk 1% per trade, you can risk any, risk 1% per trade, you can risk any, amount you want is I want to keep my, amount you want is I want to keep my, amount you want is I want to keep my, risk the same on every single trade on, risk the same on every single trade on, risk the same on every single trade on, in any individual account so that I know, in any individual account so that I know, in any individual account so that I know, what I'm dealing with at any one time., what I'm dealing with at any one time., what I'm dealing with at any one time., So even if the the account grows and I, So even if the the account grows and I, So even if the the account grows and I, take my profits out or if it goes down a, take my profits out or if it goes down a, take my profits out or if it goes down a, little bit, I still keep the round, little bit, I still keep the round, little bit, I still keep the round, figure. And if I want to change that, figure. And if I want to change that, figure. And if I want to change that, figure, I will make a conscious decision, figure, I will make a conscious decision, figure, I will make a conscious decision, to change it. I've decided that 1% will, to change it. I've decided that 1% will, to change it. I've decided that 1% will, work for me cuz 10% you lose 10 trades, work for me cuz 10% you lose 10 trades, work for me cuz 10% you lose 10 trades, you lose your whole account. And there, you lose your whole account. And there, you lose your whole account. And there, is a likelihood that you will lose, is a likelihood that you will lose, is a likelihood that you will lose, trades because you have to learn to lose, trades because you have to learn to lose, trades because you have to learn to lose, to win. This is really, really, to win. This is really, really, to win. This is really, really, important. So I decide that 66.90 is a, important. So I decide that 66.90 is a, important. So I decide that 66.90 is a, good place to put my stop loss on this, good place to put my stop loss on this, good place to put my stop loss on this, trade. That gives me a $3160 loss, which, trade. That gives me a $3160 loss, which, trade. That gives me a $3160 loss, which, is not what I'm looking for. So, I will, is not what I'm looking for. So, I will, is not what I'm looking for. So, I will, go to 0.2. That gives me a $316 loss., go to 0.2. That gives me a $316 loss., go to 0.2. That gives me a $316 loss., I'll go to 0.15. That gives me a $237, I'll go to 0.15. That gives me a $237, I'll go to 0.15. That gives me a $237, loss, which is effectively what I'm, loss, which is effectively what I'm, loss, which is effectively what I'm, looking for on stop-loss. So, my stop, looking for on stop-loss. So, my stop, looking for on stop-loss. So, my stop, loss is as close to $250, loss is as close to $250, loss is as close to $250, as I can possibly make it. And then I, as I can possibly make it. And then I, as I can possibly make it. And then I, take a trade based on I want to take, take a trade based on I want to take, take a trade based on I want to take, profit at $7,000 cuz I believe this is, profit at $7,000 cuz I believe this is, profit at $7,000 cuz I believe this is, going to get to 7,000. It's a round, going to get to 7,000. It's a round, going to get to 7,000. It's a round, figure, so I'm looking at $77,000. 7,000, figure, so I'm looking at $77,000. 7,000, figure, so I'm looking at $77,000. 7,000, will give me a profit of $2,8450., will give me a profit of $2,8450., will give me a profit of $2,8450., If it gets to $7,000, and I leave that, If it gets to $7,000, and I leave that, If it gets to $7,000, and I leave that, trade in forever, and I place order, and, trade in forever, and I place order, and, trade in forever, and I place order, and, that's my trade. Will it work? I don't, that's my trade. Will it work? I don't, that's my trade. Will it work? I don't, know. It's 50/50. But this is why you, know. It's 50/50. But this is why you, know. It's 50/50. But this is why you, don't win all your trades. This is why, don't win all your trades. This is why, don't win all your trades. This is why, you don't win more than 50% of your, you don't win more than 50% of your, you don't win more than 50% of your, trades, cuz we're not in the game to, trades, cuz we're not in the game to, trades, cuz we're not in the game to, make $50. We're not in that game to make, make $50. We're not in that game to make, make $50. We're not in that game to make, a $40 profit when we're risking $250., a $40 profit when we're risking $250., a $40 profit when we're risking $250., We're in the game to make more than, We're in the game to make more than, We're in the game to make more than, $250., $250., $250., This is where I'm going to change your, This is where I'm going to change your, This is where I'm going to change your, mindset, guys. Come away from the, mindset, guys. Come away from the, mindset, guys. Come away from the, charts. Let's go and talk about this., charts. Let's go and talk about this., charts. Let's go and talk about this., Let's go and have a little chat about, Let's go and have a little chat about, Let's go and have a little chat about, risk management, strategy, and business, risk management, strategy, and business, risk management, strategy, and business, plan. Come on., plan. Come on., plan. Come on., The thing is, you guys always always get, The thing is, you guys always always get, The thing is, you guys always always get, into trading thinking that it's easy, into trading thinking that it's easy, into trading thinking that it's easy, because someone told you it's easy., because someone told you it's easy., because someone told you it's easy., Someone can told you you can turn $1,000, Someone can told you you can turn $1,000, Someone can told you you can turn $1,000, into $100,000 in a year. That's insane., into $100,000 in a year. That's insane., into $100,000 in a year. That's insane., What kind of investment can you put, What kind of investment can you put, What kind of investment can you put, $1,000 in and turn it into $100,000 in a, $1,000 in and turn it into $100,000 in a, $1,000 in and turn it into $100,000 in a, year? I've never heard of that ever in, year? I've never heard of that ever in, year? I've never heard of that ever in, my entire life. It's crazy. It just you, my entire life. It's crazy. It just you, my entire life. It's crazy. It just you, can't do it. But if you do it, great, can't do it. But if you do it, great, can't do it. But if you do it, great, stuff. And you know what? It is actually, stuff. And you know what? It is actually, stuff. And you know what? It is actually, theoretically possible but so many pro, theoretically possible but so many pro, theoretically possible but so many pro, traders have tried it and it fails., traders have tried it and it fails., traders have tried it and it fails., Normally by the sixth trade it fails. So, Normally by the sixth trade it fails. So, Normally by the sixth trade it fails. So, forget about it. Try and do this as a, forget about it. Try and do this as a, forget about it. Try and do this as a, career. Try and do it properly. Try and, career. Try and do it properly. Try and, career. Try and do it properly. Try and, understand that you are going to take, understand that you are going to take, understand that you are going to take, losses. Why do you think that you're, losses. Why do you think that you're, losses. Why do you think that you're, going to become the greatest trader on, going to become the greatest trader on, going to become the greatest trader on, earth in one week?, earth in one week?, earth in one week?, Why do you actually think that? Why does, Why do you actually think that? Why does, Why do you actually think that? Why does, that go through your head? Why do you, that go through your head? Why do you, that go through your head? Why do you, believe that? Because to become a doctor, believe that? Because to become a doctor, believe that? Because to become a doctor, might take you nine years. To become a, might take you nine years. To become a, might take you nine years. To become a, lawyer might take you seven or eight, lawyer might take you seven or eight, lawyer might take you seven or eight, years. To become an engineer it takes, years. To become an engineer it takes, years. To become an engineer it takes, you five or six years. Really you need, you five or six years. Really you need, you five or six years. Really you need, studying. You need you need experience., studying. You need you need experience., studying. You need you need experience., You need an apprenticeship, an, You need an apprenticeship, an, You need an apprenticeship, an, internship. Whatever the case, you can't, internship. Whatever the case, you can't, internship. Whatever the case, you can't, just become that person overnight. Maybe, just become that person overnight. Maybe, just become that person overnight. Maybe, a salesman. You might be able to become, a salesman. You might be able to become, a salesman. You might be able to become, a salesman in a week. That's easy. But, a salesman in a week. That's easy. But, a salesman in a week. That's easy. But, even they have courses and licenses and, even they have courses and licenses and, even they have courses and licenses and, all kinds of things to do their job., all kinds of things to do their job., all kinds of things to do their job., Trading we'll just do that. We'll do, Trading we'll just do that. We'll do, Trading we'll just do that. We'll do, that overnight and I'll be a, that overnight and I'll be a, that overnight and I'll be a, professional trader. I'm going to change, professional trader. I'm going to change, professional trader. I'm going to change, your mindset on this completely and make, your mindset on this completely and make, your mindset on this completely and make, you understand that you have to have a, you understand that you have to have a, you understand that you have to have a, proper plan to trade. Would you start a, proper plan to trade. Would you start a, proper plan to trade. Would you start a, business without a proper plan? Would, business without a proper plan? Would, business without a proper plan? Would, you go and open a factory having no idea, you go and open a factory having no idea, you go and open a factory having no idea, what you're going to make, having no, what you're going to make, having no, what you're going to make, having no, idea how much staff you're going to, idea how much staff you're going to, idea how much staff you're going to, need? In fact, having no idea how much, need? In fact, having no idea how much, need? In fact, having no idea how much, capital you're going to need to start, capital you're going to need to start, capital you're going to need to start, the business with now you probably, the business with now you probably, the business with now you probably, wouldn't because that would be foolish, wouldn't because that would be foolish, wouldn't because that would be foolish, wouldn't it? Funny how we do that when, wouldn't it? Funny how we do that when, wouldn't it? Funny how we do that when, we're trading. We just seem to think, we're trading. We just seem to think, we're trading. We just seem to think, that we can take $100 and just start, that we can take $100 and just start, that we can take $100 and just start, trading with it. That's not how it, trading with it. That's not how it, trading with it. That's not how it, works. If you are going to start trading, works. If you are going to start trading, works. If you are going to start trading, with $100, do yourself a favor and say, with $100, do yourself a favor and say, with $100, do yourself a favor and say, "Well, I've got $100. What do I want to, "Well, I've got $100. What do I want to, "Well, I've got $100. What do I want to, do with it? How am I going to turn it, do with it? How am I going to turn it, do with it? How am I going to turn it, into something more? And how am I going, into something more? And how am I going, into something more? And how am I going, to trade this $100? In fact, how am I, to trade this $100? In fact, how am I, to trade this $100? In fact, how am I, going to keep it? Because there's a, going to keep it? Because there's a, going to keep it? Because there's a, whole lot of guys out there that want to, whole lot of guys out there that want to, whole lot of guys out there that want to, take it off you in the markets." That's, take it off you in the markets." That's, take it off you in the markets." That's, the first thing you have to understand., the first thing you have to understand., the first thing you have to understand., You're going to lose. There's going to, You're going to lose. There's going to, You're going to lose. There's going to, be losses in this game. This is not, be losses in this game. This is not, be losses in this game. This is not, straightforward, not easy. You have to, straightforward, not easy. You have to, straightforward, not easy. You have to, understand that charts don't make you, understand that charts don't make you, understand that charts don't make you, money. You have to understand you're, money. You have to understand you're, money. You have to understand you're, going to take losses. You have to, going to take losses. You have to, going to take losses. You have to, understand that the market is 50/50. And, understand that the market is 50/50. And, understand that the market is 50/50. And, you have to understand that it's all in, you have to understand that it's all in, you have to understand that it's all in, the fear. It's all in the psychology., the fear. It's all in the psychology., the fear. It's all in the psychology., And it's all in the patience of waiting, And it's all in the patience of waiting, And it's all in the patience of waiting, for a trade, particularly on a 4hour, for a trade, particularly on a 4hour, for a trade, particularly on a 4hour, chart. Now, imagine this. If you don't, chart. Now, imagine this. If you don't, chart. Now, imagine this. If you don't, believe that fear has got anything to do, believe that fear has got anything to do, believe that fear has got anything to do, with trading, if you think that trading, with trading, if you think that trading, with trading, if you think that trading, is easy, trading is straightforward., is easy, trading is straightforward., is easy, trading is straightforward., Picture a guy who has a million dollars, Picture a guy who has a million dollars, Picture a guy who has a million dollars, in their account or a lady has a million, in their account or a lady has a million, in their account or a lady has a million, in their account, I don't know, in their account, I don't know, in their account, I don't know, whichever. Now, that person wants to, whichever. Now, that person wants to, whichever. Now, that person wants to, take a trade or start trading. So, they, take a trade or start trading. So, they, take a trade or start trading. So, they, take 10% of their entire wealth, which, take 10% of their entire wealth, which, take 10% of their entire wealth, which, is $100,000, and they place it into a, is $100,000, and they place it into a, is $100,000, and they place it into a, brokerage account and they start, brokerage account and they start, brokerage account and they start, trading. They start losing $10,000., trading. They start losing $10,000., trading. They start losing $10,000., And there's a particular kind of stress, And there's a particular kind of stress, And there's a particular kind of stress, that goes with this. You're losing, that goes with this. You're losing, that goes with this. You're losing, $10,000. It's a tiny portion of your, $10,000. It's a tiny portion of your, $10,000. It's a tiny portion of your, overall wealth, but it's still something, overall wealth, but it's still something, overall wealth, but it's still something, and it's a large sum of money. Are you, and it's a large sum of money. Are you, and it's a large sum of money. Are you, losing this money and you're thinking, losing this money and you're thinking, losing this money and you're thinking, "Oh man, I'm losing $10,000." Now, "Oh man, I'm losing $10,000." Now, "Oh man, I'm losing $10,000." Now, there's a particular stress that goes, there's a particular stress that goes, there's a particular stress that goes, with that, but it's recoverable. You can, with that, but it's recoverable. You can, with that, but it's recoverable. You can, walk away from it. Maybe try and come, walk away from it. Maybe try and come, walk away from it. Maybe try and come, back from it. Maybe try and train, back from it. Maybe try and train, back from it. Maybe try and train, yourself to do better next time and, yourself to do better next time and, yourself to do better next time and, rather make a profit than a loss. But, rather make a profit than a loss. But, rather make a profit than a loss. But, now imagine that person only has, now imagine that person only has, now imagine that person only has, $100,000. They have $100,000, not a, $100,000. They have $100,000, not a, $100,000. They have $100,000, not a, million. They take the $100,000, million. They take the $100,000, million. They take the $100,000, put it into the brokerage account, put it into the brokerage account, put it into the brokerage account, that's everything they own in the world, that's everything they own in the world, that's everything they own in the world, that $100,000, that $100,000, that $100,000, and they start losing $10,000, same, and they start losing $10,000, same, and they start losing $10,000, same, loss. Do you believe that they will have, loss. Do you believe that they will have, loss. Do you believe that they will have, the same fear, the same psychology, the, the same fear, the same psychology, the, the same fear, the same psychology, the, same worry? Or do you believe that the, same worry? Or do you believe that the, same worry? Or do you believe that the, one with the $100,000 only in their life, one with the $100,000 only in their life, one with the $100,000 only in their life, will be insanely stressed out because, will be insanely stressed out because, will be insanely stressed out because, they're losing a large portion of their, they're losing a large portion of their, they're losing a large portion of their, wealth and there's no way back and, wealth and there's no way back and, wealth and there's no way back and, there's no backup and there's no more, there's no backup and there's no more, there's no backup and there's no more, money. Now, think about that fear. Think, money. Now, think about that fear. Think, money. Now, think about that fear. Think, about that fear and picture it as you in, about that fear and picture it as you in, about that fear and picture it as you in, the market. Picture it as you yourself, the market. Picture it as you yourself, the market. Picture it as you yourself, with no backup, no one to pick you up., with no backup, no one to pick you up., with no backup, no one to pick you up., That is trading. And that is the, That is trading. And that is the, That is trading. And that is the, psychology of trading., psychology of trading., psychology of trading., How do you trade with a clear mind when, How do you trade with a clear mind when, How do you trade with a clear mind when, that is happening to you? So many people, that is happening to you? So many people, that is happening to you? So many people, don't believe that they're going to, don't believe that they're going to, don't believe that they're going to, lose. Everybody believes they're going, lose. Everybody believes they're going, lose. Everybody believes they're going, to be in the top 30% that win. Everybody, to be in the top 30% that win. Everybody, to be in the top 30% that win. Everybody, believes they're always going to win., believes they're always going to win., believes they're always going to win., Forget about all the fact that there's, Forget about all the fact that there's, Forget about all the fact that there's, people out there like myself that have, people out there like myself that have, people out there like myself that have, been trading for 33 years. Forget about, been trading for 33 years. Forget about, been trading for 33 years. Forget about, the fact that there's pro traders out, the fact that there's pro traders out, the fact that there's pro traders out, there. Forget about the fact that most, there. Forget about the fact that most, there. Forget about the fact that most, of the market is made up of, of the market is made up of, of the market is made up of, institutional traders and money. Forget, institutional traders and money. Forget, institutional traders and money. Forget, about that. That's not even a problem., about that. That's not even a problem., about that. That's not even a problem., You're brand new to trading and you're, You're brand new to trading and you're, You're brand new to trading and you're, going to beat all of them. You're going, going to beat all of them. You're going, going to beat all of them. You're going, to take them all out because you're a, to take them all out because you're a, to take them all out because you're a, kung fu trader, man. You're getting in, kung fu trader, man. You're getting in, kung fu trader, man. You're getting in, there. You believe this and that's why, there. You believe this and that's why, there. You believe this and that's why, you lose. That's why you get into, you lose. That's why you get into, you lose. That's why you get into, trading and you lose all your money, trading and you lose all your money, trading and you lose all your money, because you don't understand that, because you don't understand that, because you don't understand that, there's better traders out there than, there's better traders out there than, there's better traders out there than, you because somebody gave you a system, you because somebody gave you a system, you because somebody gave you a system, and promised you a win rate and win, and promised you a win rate and win, and promised you a win rate and win, rates don't make you money. You see, win, rates don't make you money. You see, win, rates don't make you money. You see, win, rates are easy to determine on a chart., rates are easy to determine on a chart., rates are easy to determine on a chart., I can show you any chart and show you, I can show you any chart and show you, I can show you any chart and show you, how to make a win rate on a chart. It's, how to make a win rate on a chart. It's, how to make a win rate on a chart. It's, easy. But you're going to make less than, easy. But you're going to make less than, easy. But you're going to make less than, what you're losing because that losing, what you're losing because that losing, what you're losing because that losing, trade is always going to drag you down, trade is always going to drag you down, trade is always going to drag you down, when you want to move your stop loss, when you want to move your stop loss, when you want to move your stop loss, away. when you want a dollar cost, away. when you want a dollar cost, away. when you want a dollar cost, average because you everybody's done the, average because you everybody's done the, average because you everybody's done the, same thing. The pain of losing is, same thing. The pain of losing is, same thing. The pain of losing is, insane. The pain of losing is difficult., insane. The pain of losing is difficult., insane. The pain of losing is difficult., You have to change your trading mindset, You have to change your trading mindset, You have to change your trading mindset, and understand in the psychology of, and understand in the psychology of, and understand in the psychology of, trading. Every single trade you take is, trading. Every single trade you take is, trading. Every single trade you take is, costing you whatever you're risking. So, costing you whatever you're risking. So, costing you whatever you're risking. So, if you're risking $250 on every single, if you're risking $250 on every single, if you're risking $250 on every single, trade, when you take the trade, trade, when you take the trade, trade, when you take the trade, understand that you've lost that $250., understand that you've lost that $250., understand that you've lost that $250., You've paid $250, You've paid $250, You've paid $250, for that trade. When the trade goes into, for that trade. When the trade goes into, for that trade. When the trade goes into, a profit and you're all lucky and you're, a profit and you're all lucky and you're, a profit and you're all lucky and you're, one of those guys that has an insanely, one of those guys that has an insanely, one of those guys that has an insanely, good win rate, it goes up into the, good win rate, it goes up into the, good win rate, it goes up into the, profit. Then you take your stop loss and, profit. Then you take your stop loss and, profit. Then you take your stop loss and, you move it up to cost or you move it, you move it up to cost or you move it, you move it up to cost or you move it, into profit. And then you start, into profit. And then you start, into profit. And then you start, following your trade up until such time, following your trade up until such time, following your trade up until such time, as you're ready to take the profit or it, as you're ready to take the profit or it, as you're ready to take the profit or it, comes back and takes the profit out., comes back and takes the profit out., comes back and takes the profit out., Most of my profits are made one or two, Most of my profits are made one or two, Most of my profits are made one or two, trades for the year which make an insane, trades for the year which make an insane, trades for the year which make an insane, amount of profit and then the rest is, amount of profit and then the rest is, amount of profit and then the rest is, made up of targets trades that make, made up of targets trades that make, made up of targets trades that make, target and and make me a good profit., target and and make me a good profit., target and and make me a good profit., And then there's a large percentage of, And then there's a large percentage of, And then there's a large percentage of, trades, like 60% of them that are made, trades, like 60% of them that are made, trades, like 60% of them that are made, up of small wins and small losses, up of small wins and small losses, up of small wins and small losses, because all my losses are small. All my, because all my losses are small. All my, because all my losses are small. All my, losses are kept at 1%., losses are kept at 1%., losses are kept at 1%., So I know it's a small loss and I and if, So I know it's a small loss and I and if, So I know it's a small loss and I and if, I can get out early in a loss, if I see, I can get out early in a loss, if I see, I can get out early in a loss, if I see, the trade is not going well, I will, the trade is not going well, I will, the trade is not going well, I will, actually get out of the trade as early, actually get out of the trade as early, actually get out of the trade as early, as I possibly can if I see it's really, as I possibly can if I see it's really, as I possibly can if I see it's really, going pear shape and it doesn't look, going pear shape and it doesn't look, going pear shape and it doesn't look, like it's going to work out in any way, like it's going to work out in any way, like it's going to work out in any way, shape, or form. So there's a whole lot, shape, or form. So there's a whole lot, shape, or form. So there's a whole lot, of small losses, a whole lot of small, of small losses, a whole lot of small, of small losses, a whole lot of small, wins. That's why there's a whole lot of, wins. That's why there's a whole lot of, wins. That's why there's a whole lot of, small wins in my trading because those, small wins in my trading because those, small wins in my trading because those, small wins are taken because you always, small wins are taken because you always, small wins are taken because you always, get the scenario of the stop-loss coming, get the scenario of the stop-loss coming, get the scenario of the stop-loss coming, back, taking out the money in a small, back, taking out the money in a small, back, taking out the money in a small, profit. You have to accept those. You, profit. You have to accept those. You, profit. You have to accept those. You, have to live with those just like you, have to live with those just like you, have to live with those just like you, would live with the stop losses. But, would live with the stop losses. But, would live with the stop losses. But, there's always those couple of big, there's always those couple of big, there's always those couple of big, trades through the year and there's, trades through the year and there's, trades through the year and there's, always all those trades that actually, always all those trades that actually, always all those trades that actually, hit your target which is you as you saw, hit your target which is you as you saw, hit your target which is you as you saw, when we were looking at the trade. The, when we were looking at the trade. The, when we were looking at the trade. The, target needs to be nice and decent. If, target needs to be nice and decent. If, target needs to be nice and decent. If, you can make a decent target out of any, you can make a decent target out of any, you can make a decent target out of any, trade, that's a good trade. Those are, trade, that's a good trade. Those are, trade, that's a good trade. Those are, the trades that you're looking for., the trades that you're looking for., the trades that you're looking for., You're not looking for these willy-nilly, You're not looking for these willy-nilly, You're not looking for these willy-nilly, trades every day and sitting in the, trades every day and sitting in the, trades every day and sitting in the, market every day trying to take trades, market every day trying to take trades, market every day trying to take trades, going to take five minute charts and, going to take five minute charts and, going to take five minute charts and, going sitting there and hoping that, going sitting there and hoping that, going sitting there and hoping that, you're going to make some money out of, you're going to make some money out of, you're going to make some money out of, it. That's not how it works. And on that, it. That's not how it works. And on that, it. That's not how it works. And on that, note, if you're here, don't forget to, note, if you're here, don't forget to, note, if you're here, don't forget to, join the members area, get trade of the, join the members area, get trade of the, join the members area, get trade of the, day every day, and join the Telegram, day every day, and join the Telegram, day every day, and join the Telegram, channel and have a chat to us. It's, channel and have a chat to us. It's, channel and have a chat to us. It's, always good. As well, if you've watched, always good. As well, if you've watched, always good. As well, if you've watched, the video this far, tell me you've, the video this far, tell me you've, the video this far, tell me you've, subscribed. Surely you would have, subscribed. Surely you would have, subscribed. Surely you would have, subscribed. If you've watched the video, subscribed. If you've watched the video, subscribed. If you've watched the video, this far and you were interested in the, this far and you were interested in the, this far and you were interested in the, video to this point, then maybe I did, video to this point, then maybe I did, video to this point, then maybe I did, talk about something interesting. Maybe, talk about something interesting. Maybe, talk about something interesting. Maybe, it was something worthwhile to you that, it was something worthwhile to you that, it was something worthwhile to you that, helped you in your trading or will help, helped you in your trading or will help, helped you in your trading or will help, you in your trading in the future. But, you in your trading in the future. But, you in your trading in the future. But, if it doesn't, you know, you'll have to, if it doesn't, you know, you'll have to, if it doesn't, you know, you'll have to, figure something else out and go and, figure something else out and go and, figure something else out and go and, watch some other YouTuber. I don't know., watch some other YouTuber. I don't know., watch some other YouTuber. I don't know., There's always that. But join us on the, There's always that. But join us on the, There's always that. But join us on the, live shows every Tuesday and Thursday., live shows every Tuesday and Thursday., live shows every Tuesday and Thursday., Come and learn something. It's always, Come and learn something. It's always, Come and learn something. It's always, fun. Thanks for watching, guys. And uh, fun. Thanks for watching, guys. And uh, fun. Thanks for watching, guys. And uh, keep your feet on the ground. Reach for, keep your feet on the ground. Reach for, keep your feet on the ground. Reach for, the sky. Make lots of money. Till next, the sky. Make lots of money. Till next, the sky. Make lots of money. Till next, time, watch these last videos. Cheers., time, watch these last videos. Cheers., time, watch these last videos. Cheers., Ciao and peace out.
