Timestamp: 2024-12-28T23:37:40.457284
Title: Is China's NEWEST Sixth-Generation Fighters a GAME CHANGER?
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z_1Sp_U0uCU
Status: success

Description:
China unveiled several new military assets, including two potentially sixth-generation fighter jets (one possibly a bomber variant), a new AWACS, and an advanced aircraft carrier, all coinciding with Chairman Mao's birthday; this display highlights China's growing military capabilities and signifies their focus on modernizing their armed forces.


Content:
Well, China certainly stirred things up when they unveiled two new fighter jets, a new
aircraft carrier and a new AWACS all in one day. And if you're like me asking why all this in one day, well, it turns out this was the
131st birthday of Chairman Mao. So obviously they were celebrating him. We're gonna take a look at the fighters they released. We're gonna talk about what sixth generation fighters are and are these sixth gen fighters
or not. We'll take a quick look at the aircraft carrier as well as their new AWACS. And this guy right here was the first plane that went flying. And it popped up as China's sixth generation fighter. Well, now they shortly thereafter flew another aircraft, which really more looks like a
fighter aircraft. This one now, I think people are coming out and saying this might be the JH-XX. They're basically bomber version, a sixth generation kind of B-21 Raider, if you will,
going forward. Now the China Defense Ministry hasn't released a public statement, so this is all coming
from social media, as well as speculation across news outlets, et cetera, across the globe. So shortly after this one took flight, another aircraft took flight and that aircraft is
now being called the J-36. It looks more of like a fighter type aircraft, two engines versus the three engines, which
again, we're gonna dig into that here in a little bit. So, lot going on. Let's jump into what we know about the first aircraft that went flying just a couple of
days ago. So kicking off with a video, this is the first sixth generation fighter or the newest
fighter that went flying. Kind of looks like a Dorito in my opinion. Now this one was accompanied by the J-20, and this is out of the Shandong Aircraft
Company, so naturally it flew alongside its brother or sister there. One thing of note, which we'll dig into, notice how the speed brakes, or the flight
control surfaces, least at the end, are fully extended. I'm assuming that speed brakes, are some renders out there which show that there are five
flight control surfaces along the trailing edge of both wings. It's tailless, which that is the one thing I think all Engad, next generation air
dominance fighters, that are in competition in the US as well as some of our allies, they're all gonna be
tail-less. So this one is tail-less, which you reduce some radar cross-section, you reduce some
signature, as well as you might just need it because you don't have a tail, you need those flight control surfaces to induce y'all, make turns, slow the aircraft down, et cetera. So, all right, that guy went flying and then shortly thereafter, the next aircraft was
unveiled by China. And this aircraft is now being called J36 across social media because they just unveiled
the J35 at the Zhuhai air show just a few weeks ago. So let's take a look at this one, which is being escorted by a J16. So this one, there's not that much out there on the internet for this variant flying
around, but you can clearly see two engines versus the three engines, which we'll talk a little bit more here in a bit. And it looks more of a fighter-esque size and fighter type aircraft. So let's jump back into the JHX, the bomber one. So first take a look at this one. It does appear, in my humble opinion, that these are possibly additional flight control
surfaces, although it's easier to see on the right wing that, again, they might be divided, although they all are symmetrical with no brakes in them at this point. It appears that the outer flight control surfaces are symmetrical and open, which I'm
gonna make the assumption that these most likely are being utilized as a speed brake. Now in fly-by-wire modern aircraft outside F-16, but F-35, F-22, no speed brakes. It's gonna utilize the flight controls that are available to slow the aircraft down,
whatever the pilot's not using. Again, the pilot gets a vote on what they wanna do and then the computers move the flight
control surfaces in most efficient manner. Most likely that is the case here. This one fly along the J-20, which is about 70 feet in length and that's a large aircraft. also appears to be a very large aircraft. Again, kind of leading towards, if you look, you know, rather large weapons bay, what I'm
assuming here, so able to carry large payloads, so thinking more long range strategic strike, as well as the wheels. You can see they're canted here. In my mind, it also kind of looks like a, know, a triple seven or seven, six, seven,
albeit just single wheeled, not dual wheeled, or an F-18, you know, basically designed to absorb a lot of weight if you're carrying a lot of gas, a lot of payload. Here's a rendering. Interesting aspect here is intake on the top as well as you can't see here, but there are
two intakes on the bottom side of the aircraft. Three exhaust ports, by exhaust ports I mean exhaust. So a couple things, could be one, there's speculation that, hey, you need three engines
because this is a heavy aircraft. You need three engines able to get from point A to point B and carry all this payload. That is one assumption and may be valid or invalid. Interesting that you would not have, or you have the third intake on top of the aircraft. This plane might be able to achieve hypersonic speeds and maybe you need a ramjet or a
scramjet in order to go into high altitude, high speed regimes. Time will tell. So that is an interesting design concept. There's the back end. Again, rendering here, I'm assuming this came off of what people were seeing on social
media where it appears to be five separate flight control surfaces. And when it was flying around, it had the outer two on each wing fully deployed. Again, kind of thinking speed brake, that's what it looked like. And they didn't look like they were deflecting. i.e. making any control movements. So again, trying to slow the aircraft down or maintain speed there. No tail, right? So having the different flight control surfaces might mean smaller movements. So again, reducing radar cross-sections and movements, as well as the required
maneuverability, having no tail in order to able to do y'all and make the changes there. So interesting design concept with that. Now over to the J36, again, what people are calling it. Again, this was escorted by the J16 out of the Shenyang Aircraft Corporation. which was unveiled as the second aircraft on that day. This one again looks more maneuverable, more of a fighter type platform. So this might be more towards that sixth generation fighter aircraft. Now, what is a sixth generation fighter aircraft? Remember the term fifth generation was a marketing term created by Lockheed to market the
F-22. So you needed something to create a need for the next demand, which really was sensor
fusion and advanced avionics, et cetera, and stealth capability. for the F-22. Now the sixth generation, that is the term. What is the next variation? What does it need? So I think some terms that are kind of agreed upon universally. One, it could be piloted or non-piloted, a hybrid cockpit, if you will, low observable
with advanced avionics, and able to utilize artificial intelligence as well as collaborative wingmen to go out there and fight. So are these sixth generation aircraft and fighters? Well, time will tell. We do see that it does appear to be a low radar cross section. They've incorporated stealth elements, so we would check that box. But really the piece, what would make it a sixth generation fighter, at least as the
United States and our allies go out there and procure and develop these planes, would be can it utilize artificial intelligence? Can it do collaborative thinking and working with autonomous wingmen? Those type things. Nonetheless, it is impressive they've rolled out two. advanced aircraft in a matter or really three advanced aircraft in a matter of just a few
weeks. So nothing to bat an eye at. Next China rolled out their latest and greatest airborne control platform, which is the
KJ-3000 based on the Y-20 body. Obviously increasing range and endurance. It is the quarterback when it comes to an air-to-air fight or engagement tracking enemy
fighters, coordinating missile strikes, et cetera. So this one incorporates an advanced AESA radar. allowing to have 360 degree coverage, capable of dozens of targets simultaneously and
crucial when it comes to running an air war. China also unveiled their newest aircraft carrier. This is going to be a Type 4, which is not just another ship. I mean, it's a floating fortress. It incorporates an electromagnetic catapult system like we see on modern US aircraft
carriers today. In theory, able to launch stealth fighter aircraft, fighter aircraft and drones much more
efficiently and faster than ever before. as well as an advanced deck design capable of supporting next generation fighters. The last few days definitely has shown that China is a powerhouse. They have been a powerhouse and it's not something to be taken lightly if you're talking
about near peer adversaries. The ability to roll out three new aircraft and advanced aircraft. Now we don't know what the internal guts of those planes are, what the capabilities of
them are, which is the true mark of a modern fighter these days, as well as the ability to produce them, maintain them, fly them, et cetera. There's a whole host of issues that come along with it. But again, it shouldn't be scoffed. Let me know what think down below and I'll see you next time.
