Timestamp: 2025-02-28T00:09:19.071899
Title: 爲何八字包含了人一生的信息？仙家和道家的區別？爲什麽男人天生適合學“易”？女人天生適合學“道”？陰陽五行.天干地支｜ 道家文化｜易學智慧｜中國傳統文化 | 老子道德經 | 云解老庄
URL: https://youtu.be/K-rErdmLk38?si=8A1QkKfOzxY_gba0
Status: success
Duration: 1:04:03

Description:
好的，这是对所提供文本的摘要，包括提纲、核心结论、总体框架和一个美人鱼概念图。

**内容摘要**

**I. 引言**
   *   回顾上一期关于老子与庄子的区别。
   *   探讨《易经》与《道德经》的核心差异与统一之处。
   *   提出“《易经》是1，《道德经》是0”的观点，引发关于先后大小的讨论。

**II. 《易经》的特点**
   *   **核心：**符号体系，用于占卜和记录未知事物。
   *   通过符号推演未来，强调逻辑推理和因果关系。
   *   与科学工程思维方式相似，注重分析和计算。
   *   总是试图让人们理解，详细解释原因和结果。

**III. 《道德经》的特点**
   *   **核心：**“道”的把握，强调“无”，即抓住事物背后的“气”。
   *   不强调逻辑推理，具有神秘性和模糊性，使人难以完全理解。
   *   不试图解释，而是引导人们自己去领悟。
   *   更侧重于“无为”，顺应自然，不强求。

**IV. 《易经》与《道德经》的对比**
   *   《易经》侧重“有”，关注具体事物和变化。
   *   《道德经》侧重“无”，强调空灵和精神提升。
   *   学习路径：
        *   若喜欢精确，适合从《易经》入手。
        *   若追求精神提升，适合学习《道德经》。
   *   二者在功能上既统一又分离，有时需要严格区分。

**V. 《易经》与《道德经》在生活中的应用**
   *   《易经》强调积极进取，进攻是最好的防守，适合男性。
   *   《道德经》强调柔和退让，顺其自然，适合女性。
   *   《易经》可用于建功立业，争取好的职位。
   *   《道德经》主张“无为而治”，通过不作为来实现目标。
   *   《易经》像复杂机器的使用手册，需要学习才能启动。
   *   《道德经》则类似于自然之门，无需指导，凭感觉领悟。

**VI. 阴阳与规则**
   *   《易经》是阴阳中的阳，积极主动；《道德经》是阴，柔和内敛。
   *   规则既成就阴阳，又限制阴阳，维持平衡。
   *   学习《易经》要掌握进退之道，不可一味强求。
   *   理解阴阳差异有助于学习《易经》，不可执着于某一方。
        *   男子宜学易经，女子宜学道德经。
   *   阴阳是事物发展的普遍规律，男人和女人是阴阳的聚集点。

**VII. 时空观**
   *   时间：对我们来说漫长的时间，对于更高维度来说可能很短暂，过去，现在和未来在某一点重叠。
   *   空间：九维空间相互交织，不同维度之间存在渗透。
   *   出生时刻包含了所有信息，命运在出生时已注定。

**VIII. 巫与易的区别**
   *   巫通过与神灵（如女娲）沟通来解决问题，依赖直觉和概率。
   *   易通过符号和逻辑推理来分析问题，与个人能力有关，不涉及神灵。
   *   仙家能量场弱于道与易，不主张通过仙家获取财富，强调通过学习易理提升自己。
   *   女娲希望通过巫使世界变得更好。

**IX. 结论**
   *   既要重视《易经》的进取精神，也要学习《道德经》的处世智慧。
   *   结合自身情况，选择适合自己的学习路径和生活方式。

**核心结论：**《易经》与《道德经》分别代表了积极进取和顺应自然的两种人生哲学，理解它们的差异与统一，有助于我们更好地认识世界和自我，从而做出更明智的选择。

**Overarching Framework(总体框架):**
对比了《易经》和《道德经》在核心思想、方法论、应用场景以及学习路径上的差异，并探讨了它们在阴阳平衡、规则以及时空观等方面的体现，旨在帮助读者更好地理解这两种中国传统文化经典。
The text is based on comparison between the The Book of Changes and Tao Te Ching in core thought, methodology, application scenarios and learning path,and discusses their reflection in Yin and Yang balance, rules and the concept of time and space, aiming to help readers better understand these two Chinese traditional cultural classics.

**<Mermaid_Diagram>**
```mermaid
graph LR
    subgraph Core Concepts
        A[易经 (Yi Jing)]:::yi --> B(符号体系\n(Symbol System)):::symbol
        A --> C(逻辑推理\n(Logical Reasoning)):::reasoning
        A --> D(强调 "有"\n(Emphasizes "Being")):::being
        E[道德经 (Tao Te Ching)]:::tao --> F(把握 "道"\n(Grasping "Tao")):::tao_concept
        E --> G(注重 "无"\n(Focuses on "Nothingness")):::nothingness
        E --> H(顺应自然\n(Following Nature)):::nature
    end

    subgraph Contrast
        I{核心差异\n(Core Differences)}:::difference --> J[易经：积极进取\n(Yi Jing: Proactive)]:::proactive
        I --> K[道德经：柔和退让\n(Tao Te Ching: Gentle Retreat)]:::retreat
    end

    subgraph Application
        L[易经：建功立业\n(Yi Jing: Building Career)]:::career --> M(适合男性\n(Suitable for Men)):::men
        N[道德经：无为而治\n(Tao Te Ching: Governing by Non-Action)]:::governing --> O(适合女性\n(Suitable for Women)):::women
    end
    
    subgraph Learning
        P[学习路径\n(Learning Path)]:::path --> Q{喜欢精确\n(Prefers Precision)}:::precision
        Q --> R[从易经入手\n(Start with Yi Jing)]:::start_yi
        Q --> S[追求精神提升\n(Pursues Spiritual Elevation)]:::elevation
        S --> T[学习道德经\n(Study Tao Te Ching)]:::study_tao
    end

    subgraph TimeSpace
        U[时空观\n(Concept of Time and Space)]:::time_space --> V(时间重叠\n(Time Overlap)):::time
        U --> W(空间渗透\n(Space Penetration)):::space
        
    end
    
    subgraph witchVSyijing
     XX[巫 (witch)]:::witch -->  YY(与神灵沟通\n(Communicate with God)):::communication
     XX -->  ZZ(依赖直觉\n(Rely on intuition)):::intuition
     AA[易经 (yijing)]:::yijing -->  BB(逻辑推理\n(Logic Reasoning)):::logics
     AA -->  CC(不依赖神灵\n(Don't Rely on God)):::gods

    end    

    A --> I
    E --> I
    L --> I
    N --> I
    P --> I
    U -->I
    XX --> I
    AA -->I
    

    style yi fill:#f9f,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style symbol fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style reasoning fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style being fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px

    style tao fill:#9f9,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style tao_concept fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style nothingness fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style nature fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px

    style difference fill:#ffc,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style proactive fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style retreat fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px

    style career fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style men fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style governing fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style women fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    
    style path fill:#ffa,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style precision fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style start_yi fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style elevation fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style study_tao fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px

    style time_space fill:#fea,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style time fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style space fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    
    style witch fill:#eac,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style communication fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style intuition fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style yijing fill:#eac,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style logics fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style gods fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px


```
</Mermaid_Diagram>


Content:
Good evening fellow Taoists, today we will continue to explain the difference between Laozi and Zhuangzhuang in the previous issue. What are the core differences between the Yi Jing and Laozi's Tao Te Ching? Which are they unified and which are different? At the end of the last issue, we simply said that the Yi Jing is 1 and the Tao Te Ching is 0. Of course, who is first and who is last is an eternal topic. Who is bigger and who is smaller between 0 and 1 is also an eternal topic, and it is very interesting to discuss 0 and 1 on the Internet. The Taoist priest just searched for 0 and 1 and watched a few videos and found it very interesting. Sometimes they say one big and sometimes they say 0 big. Why is 0 big? The Taoist priest dare not say this. Taoist friends can go find it on their own. He said that it is indeed 0 big. The Taoist priest has given an example before. What is it called? If 0 or the earth Kun is compared to the Tao Te Ching, then the Book of Changes is the one called the ox that plows the ground. Isn’t that song sung? There is no plowed land, only exhausted oxen. That’s where it comes from. So based on this, who is bigger and who is smaller? If you don’t say 1, you will definitely not be able to do it. Over 0, sure. What the Yijing mainly talks about is a symbol. The symbols from the beginning are used for divination records. In short, through some existing symbols that everyone can recognize, they record things that everyone didn’t know before. Then use these symbols to deduce what may happen in the future. This is divination and is the most important thing in the Yijing. Once you hear the effect, everyone will understand whether the I Ching is our current science or is studied by men in science and engineering. This is why the Taoist priest accidentally mentioned a sentence in it, saying that men or boys have higher IQs than girls. Some girls are not willing to listen. Here, the Taoist priest will clarify this sentence. What this sentence says is that men are indeed better than women in learning Yi or our ability to understand Yi. This is why men in science and engineering are better than men in science and engineering. Women pay attention to intuition and say I think so. I think that boy likes me. How do I care if you like it or not? But men in science and engineering are not men in science and engineering. Analysis Association Make a list and say: first, I have no money, second, I am not handsome, third, my parents are not capable, fourth, I don’t have much, and the final result is that I can’t like that girl. This is how men in science and engineering calculated it, but this is also what the I Ching emphasizes. You see, the I Ching is metaphysics, but in fact it is more science than science. Learning is that every Book of Changes must pay attention to reasoning. You can deduce those conditions because of these conditions. But the Tao Te Ching does not have it. The Tao Te Ching has one, two, three, and three. All things are finished, and all things return to their roots. If you ask me again, I will ignore you and get out of seclusion on an old cow. How can you talk about this matter and discuss it with me? I will discuss it with you. I will ignore you at all. But if you want to discuss it with King Wen of Zhou or Fu Xi, then King Wen of Zhou will be very excited. He took a small straw stick, crossed his legs, sat down on the ground, took some loess, and started to draw it for you. This is the Qian hexagram, this is the Kun hexagram. What does the stem represent? What does Kun represent? With or without shutting up, this is the core difference between the I Ching and the Tao Te Ching. The I Ching is always afraid that you won’t understand. It means that there must be both causes and consequences. Then there is the Tao Te Ching. I am afraid that you will understand. This is the truth. The more it confuses you, the more it makes you dizzy, the more advanced it seems. So, What the I Ching talks about is actually "have". Look at those symbols. The six lines and eight characters of the Eight Diagrams are all true "have". The "no" that the Tao Te Ching talks about is thorough and complete. Finally, there is a breath of energy behind you talking about these things, and the core of Laozi has grasped that breath and said that you are talking about "nothing". All kinds of changes are in this Qi. This is really the case. In the end, you said that the I Ching has talked about so much. What is the sun, the moon, and the sun and the moon in the end? Those things are what Confucius only roughly understood when he was about 50 or 60 years old. He who is good at changing does not know where he comes from. He said that if you really understand Laozi's five thousand literature, you don't have to study the Yi Jing. But you said that I am incapable of learning Laozi's Tao Te Ching. I can't understand it. I want to start from it. If you start with something, then you have to learn the Yi Jing and learn a lot of it, and the learning is very complicated. This is also the same principle as what the Taoist priest shared before. The learning is increasingly for the Tao, and it is lost and lost, so that it is inactive. Of course, this still depends on your personal understanding and nature. If you like to start with precision, you must learn the Yi Jing. Some scriptures say that you have already passed half your life and now you are over 50 years old. No matter wealth, woman or anything, it doesn’t matter to you anymore. You think this kind of emptiness and spiritual improvement are important. Then you must study Laozi’s Five Thousand Texts Tao Te Ching, right? Then you can study the I Ching. Then you can just have fun. Don’t do it. Whoever is serious about it will be boring and meaningless. Even if you study Yi, you will feel that it is just so boring. But go and read Laozi. Oh my God, I didn’t read much in the first 30 years. Why didn’t I read it? I asked you to read it in the first 30 years and you couldn’t understand it. But now you understand why. Because of Laozi’s situation. The world is too high and it is empty. All these five thousand words are empty. In fact, five thousand words written are superfluous. It is indeed superfluous. You understand those five thousand words and don’t read any of them. Then you say how can ordinary people reach this level? You teach children to sit here today. It’s okay. After teaching, the children are not allowed to look for him when they go home. Mom, are you suing me? Oh my god, you spent 500 yuan for one class in vain. The teacher didn’t teach a word. The teacher said that the great truth I taught is simple and you can understand it on your own. Then when you come back, your mother will have to find someone to settle the account with a stick. But if the teacher taught you the Book of Changes or used the method of the Book of Changes to tell you 1+1 gets 2 2 plus 2 makes 3, which is wrong. 2+2 makes 4. After that, I told you and gave you all kinds of changes. I even taught you some tricks on cheating. He told you how to copy the questions in class and how to get high scores during the exam. When you went home, you followed your mother and your mother became happy as soon as you learned it. This teacher is so skilled. In fact, the teacher made it easy to teach you. What is the Tao of simplicity? What is the Tao of simplicity? Get high scores directly. You ask Lao Tzu to tell you these things. It is impossible for Lao Tzu. So there is an essential difference in the core of Yi and Lao Tzu. There is an essential difference in the five thousand cores of Yi and Lao Tzu. So the "Yi" is what the Yijing emphasizes. The movement of heaven is strong, self-improvement, and what Lao Tzu emphasizes is kindness. Ruoshui Yi Jing focuses on what Tai Chi generates, two rituals, two rituals, four images, and four images, which become the eight trigrams. The eight trigrams generate 64 hexagrams, and the 64 hexagrams generate countless hexagrams. Then those hexagrams must eventually fall into place. Of course, this can be described very well in modern times. Our current intelligent AI and our virtual world may replace our human beings' 0s and 1s in the future. So these two points, the I Ching has thoroughly studied this, or the current intelligent AI has thoroughly studied the 0 and 1 of the I Ching, and completely recombined it with 0 and 1, that is, recombined it with yin and yang. It is the number you see now, or the mobile phone you are playing on. You heard the audio of Taoist Master, and you saw the video on the Internet. Everything is composed of 0 and 1. See how powerful it is. In fact, it is the principle of all kinds of changes mentioned in the Yi Jing. Everything is 0 and 1 in it. So the Yi Jing, Fuxi, told us that Yin and Yang are the Tao, but Lao Tzu told us what Wu Zhong is. Life and existence eventually come to nothing. Then Fuxi talked about the Book of Changes. What he told was not called talking about the Book of Changes. Fuxi essentially recorded the way of heaven, the way of nature, and recorded all the changes. Then he opened up the world from the very beginning and then split it into smaller and finer pieces. Now it may be difficult for you to find it. The various I Chings accepted include too many, and even all the phenomena in the world can be included in it. Lao Tzu said that there is a gate of Xuanmen between heaven and earth. The gate of Xuanmen gave birth to all things and all things must return in the end. This is roughly what the Yi Jing emphasizes. You must actively strive for it. This is why the Taoist priest talks about the I Ching. One of the reasons why Laozi has 5, 000 texts in the Tao Te Ching is that the Yi Jing is always teaching you to fight. Don’t look at the Yi Jing. The Taoist priest also emphasizes that there are pros and cons in the Yi. He talks about fighting and not fighting, but to be honest, those are polite words. The Yi Jing always focuses on offense as defense. The Yi Ching emphasizes offense. Otherwise, it is impossible to put Tian Xingjian ’s gentleman’s self-improvement into this aspect. Of course, it is impossible to teach you those techniques so that you can obtain something you should obtain through techniques. For example, if you see that your good partner can obtain wealth or health, are these all taught by the I Ching? One way to fight is to know what is in the outside world and then fight for it. Then use your energy, your yin and yang, your body, your size, and the capital you have to fight for what should belong to you. I am completely opposite to this. What do I pay attention to? What I pay attention to is softness. What I pay attention to is retreat. What I am saying is that it is completely contrary to the I Ching. I said, don’t give it to me. Why can’t I eat that? Don’t get close to my beauty. I can’t enjoy that. You can’t give it to me. What I ’m talking about is this, but people are interesting now. If you don’t want that, that’s not okay. If you don’t want it, I’ll give it to you. If you do n’t want it, I’ll give it to you. I don’t want it. Don't let this person die and you are too humble. No, I have to give it to you. This is also the core essence of Taoist culture. The Yi Jing emphasizes that you fight hard. You may have been fighting all your life, but you haven't fought. But I say it is to give in until the end. Maybe you don't want it, but you insist on giving it. Therefore, the Yi Jing is generally used for meritorious deeds. Establishing a career was especially inspired by Confucius. Of course, the Taoist priest said that this was 'Confucius'. In other words, after the Confucianism represented by him changed the I Ching, it was completely used to build a career and strive for a good position. How do I use this to fight for a good position? How to fight for something? But what is Laozi's Tao Te Ching? At its core, it uses the word Wuwei, I do nothing and everything is for me. The world is peaceful by doing nothing. I govern everything by doing nothing. This is how to govern. In fact, Lao Tzu said that there is a law in these five thousand texts. What is the law? He said that he has his own way. Whether you recognize it or not, follow it or follow it, the way is running. Of course, it is better if you have some knowledge. If you don't know it, it will not prevent it from running. But the Book of Changes does not say that it does not work. The I Ching says that there is a Tao. If you don't know it, it may not run or if you know it, it will run better. The I Ching is a bit like the manual of a modern complex machine. When you buy it back, you want to read the manual. You can start the machine. But Laozi's Tao Te Ching said that there is no manual, which is similar to when you go up a mountain or When nature opens the door, it is just like that. Where is the instruction manual? Birds are flying in the sky and flowers are blooming on the ground. The stream is flowing on the other side. It feels like this. You can understand this feeling at once. You don’t have to worry about what I want to do. Then your body will be better, your health will be better, your spirit will be better, and your wealth will naturally be better. If you are sitting in the mountains, some people may still come to give you money. If you don’t want it, they are asking you to give it to the Taoist priest. Isn’t that nonsense? All the people who live in the mountains are short of money. Now, why do you think they are? Bu Li Qizong, why did you change? It's still something like that. So everyone knows it now, the I Ching is the yang of yin and yang. Have you read it? The I Ching itself is the sun and the moon, which is yin and yang. But if you look at the Yin and Yang Tai Chi diagram, the Yi is yang, and then Laozi's Five Thousand Wen is yin. Of course, it is also what the Taoist priest said before. If you follow the modern understanding, the I Ching is a fuel tank. The Tao Te Ching is a water tank. So sometimes they are unified and sometimes they are separated. In terms of function, they are unified, right? If a car has a water tank, it will break down, but in terms of function or shape, or some parts need to be separated, then you said that if you pour water into the tank, can the car still start? It will definitely not start. This is one of the reasons why the Taoist Master taught Laozi and Zhuangzi separately and the Eight Characters of the Book of Changes are completely mixed together. Water and oil are mixed together. So you say that you have mixed the Eight Characters all day long after talking about the Eight Characters. This is not good. But you have to say that when you talk about Laozi's Tao Te Ching, some people use the current Confucian way of saying that. Lao Zhuang told him in the same way that he was trying to govern the country, or even out of his mind. Then you went astray again. You confused the water tank and the oil tank. So sometimes they are used, but sometimes they have to be strictly separated. So you can't always step on the gas pedal, keep stepping on the gas pedal, always study the I Ching. No matter you learn the eight characters, learn the six lines, learn any magic, learn any magic number, especially Feng Shui, Feng Shui has the biggest backlash. This is also what Taoist Master Feng Shui is just simple. I want to give you some reasons why Feng Shui is actually the scope of conditioning. Qimen actually also has part of the scope of conditioning. It is when you recognize the power of heaven, earth, people, heaven, earth, people, ghosts and gods. If you want to use some external power to control some things that may or may not be possible, there will definitely be backlash. Just like if you step on the accelerator as hard as you can, a car has already passed in front of you. You said, I am trying to use the power of my accelerator to surpass that car. It is obvious that there is a person in front of me. The train is coming sideways. This is a railway. But if you think you can get over, then you will crash into it. That's the truth. But this time you have a Tao Te Ching to tell you to stop the car. If you are not in a hurry, stop the car and wait for 5 minutes. The train will pass. But when you learn Yi, sometimes it is not. Is there a high-speed rail? The power of the five elements behind the high-speed rail is supporting each one. Isn’t it just you who have studied for two days? This is what the Taoist priest said to those Taoist friends who have sent many private messages to ask about the Taoist priest. They have studied for a few days in small classes or in other places. Of course, the Taoist priest can’t comment too much. You must not learn it, especially Qimen, especially some Feng Shui related things. You must not learn it if you haven’t mastered the Eight Characters, Laozi’s Tao Te Ching, or the Book of Changes. Don’t learn everything about Qimen and Feng Shui. But if you talk about the basic concepts and the impact of Feng Shui on us, just say what is good or bad. That’s fine. But you must not try to say that you should adjust the Feng Shui of your home. Adjust the Feng Shui of your ancestral graves. Adjust the Feng Shui of your village. Isn’t that what the Taoist priest said you can easily tune yourself into? Because the energy field of others is there. Whether it is negative or positive, everyone has it, as small as one person. As big as a village, a city, or a country, it has its own five elements and yin and yang energy. That energy field. Some people will visualize it as the yin soldiers and yang soldiers behind it. What kind of protective gods, what kind of family protectors? Can you follow your own figure and follow others? This is one of the main reasons why Taoist Priest talks about learning Yi. It is okay for you to learn Yi to improve yourself. But don’t think that you have learned Yi twice. You go to take a photo of the unknown energy outside. You can’t touch it and smash it to pieces. After you come back, you still have to blame Taoist Priest. Taoist Priest, what are you teaching me? Tell me if it's good. I'll try it. If it doesn't work, you didn't see who you're following. Taoist Priest is giving you a martial arts secret, but you have to practice it for two years, let alone 20 years. You can try it again. You take the martial arts secret book and just go to the village bully and shoot him to death. So, It is said that the I Ching itself is male-oriented. It teaches you to be masculine, teaches you to be diligent and teaches you to be enterprising. The Tao Te Ching, Laozi's five thousand texts, is female-oriented and teaches you femininity and tolerance. To put it bluntly, women don’t need to compete with men. Taoist priest, we haven’t started today yet. Before we officially start, we have to talk about the things between men and women. Because once you understand the things between men and women, you can understand the yin and yang. To say that men and women are a gathering point of yin and yang is to say that he gathers yang energy into men and yin energy into women. It would be great to use these two characters who are closest to you to teach you how to learn Yi. You are still stubborn and I won't. I want to be masculine. Why do you say that men are masculine? Why do you say that men are strong? I don't accept it when you say that men are strong. If I want to be masculine, then you should be masculine. The Taoist priest has no choice. In fact, the Taoist priest teaches you what it is. Once you recognize the differences between men and women in some essential physiological structures, personalities, and ways of doing things, you will be able to learn Yi. You will be able to enter the door of yin and yang. You should not be obsessed with that yin or that yang, let alone men and women. Men and women are everything to you. For yin and yang, Yi is even one. It's not at all like Yi. It contains so much that you can't imagine. Yi never talks about the yin and yang of the nasty things between men and women, nor does it talk about the necessary things between men and women. It just says that everything is bigger than you think. But if you insist on drilling into men and women, there is no way. Taoist priest sometimes uses your perspective and your thinking to guide you a little bit. The relationship between men and women is trying to lift you out of that, but If you drill further, you have to drill there. The Taoist priest has no choice, because Yi is tailor-made for men. Laozi's Five Thousand Wen is tailor-made for women, so it is relatively easy for men to learn Yi. Because he said, isn't this just teaching me how to do things and how to behave with others? When it comes to women, learning the Tao Te Ching also says, isn't this just teaching me how to survive? I feel that it is too difficult to survive in today's society, but I discovered Lao Tzu's wisdom. Once you have Huiwo, it’s so easy to survive. Why is it that if a girl says that you should clean yourself inside and out, men will come to you and beg you to chase you and drive you away? Then when you are at home, the Taoist priest said, “Don’t go out, do n’t go out, don’t go in. ” What the Taoist said is roughly this, that is, in the relationship between men and women, you should guard yourself and wait for you. Even though you are attracted to you, you pretend to be no good. I haven’t been attracted to you, and there is also the old Zhang family. There is a boy looking at me. Lao Zhang is here again. You have been pushing and pushing. Finally, it has been pushing for 10 years. You feel that it is time for you and you can see who among them is sincere. If not, they will run away after a year. But don’t hold on for too long, hold on for too long. All of them have run away. Then don’t blame the Taoist priest. The Taoist priest said that is roughly what it means. Then you choose the one that suits you and take it back. Then you two will be happy. He has lived this life like this, but men can't do it. Men say you are waiting at home. You have learned Lao Tzu's Tao Te Ching, but you haven't learned the I Ching. You said that the Taoist priest taught us that we must be patient and Kunde. If a girl chases you, you push and a girl chases you. You push again and then push countless girls. Then you are single and live this life. How miserable you are. So men must learn the I Ching. The Taoist priest who learned the I Ching last time seems to have talked about two of them. When I was young, I said that you have to test a girl's heart first. You have to be tactful and direct. You can't be too tactful. The girl can't see that it's not enough to treat you as a buddy. Then you have to be more explicit. Then you are afraid that the girl will be reserved. Then next time you will be more explicit. Then if you are given a chance, you have to touch the person's fingers first and then touch the person's wrist. . . How detailed is the Book of Changes? To put it bluntly, isn't this a man's handbook? Well, don’t you blame Taoist Master if you don’t learn? So you have to base it on this. If you can be single, can you not find a wife? Is it possible? So if you can’t find a wife, the only thing is that you haven’t learned the Yi. This is the principle. It is said that the Yi is offensive, not male and female. The male is offensive and offensive. The Tao Te Ching. I have five thousand words. The more defensive a woman is, the more defensive she is. So, if you can defend yourself, defend everything, and guard wealth, why are there some relationships between men and women? Before I start today, the Taoist has been verbose too much because I want to say too much. Recently, the Taoist priest also glanced at the feedback. Let me say a few more words. Why do women sometimes fail to keep their money? It’s not because you haven’t earned it. If you don’t believe it, think about it. If a woman’s life is not good, it’s because she didn’t keep the money. But if a man is not good, it’s definitely not because he didn’t keep the money. It’s because he didn’t earn it at all. So this is an essential difference. That’s why men and women are allowed to combine and let men earn money while women People need to keep money, but now things are going wrong. Some women work hard to earn by themselves. The Taoist priest has seen too much. He wants to beg for wealth. He is weak in body and rich in wealth. Then his official position is light or even empty. He desperately wants to beg for money, but he begs and begs and begs for money. He asked the leader, what 's the matter? He is over 30 years old and has no money. Let's get over that. It's certain that men are here to conquer the world. Taoist priests don't have that kind of color. That's how men are here to conquer the world. Unless you go into seclusion in the mountains and become a monk like Taoist priests and don't care about worldly affairs, you can say that you are not here to conquer the world. If you are still around in the world, especially if you are in the system, especially if you are still walking in the world, you are the one who conquers the world. You have to use the I Ching to conquer the world. And women are definitely not meant to conquer the world, because women cannot conquer the world. But women can conquer men. If you want to conquer one man, if you think it is not enough, you can conquer countless men. It is as simple as that, and your world will be beautiful. Just wait. You are the land, the Kunde, the earth. More crops will grow on it, and more seeds will eventually fall to the land. Will it bloom and grow again next year? Which one of them took it away? In the end, he still gave it to women. It’s that simple, but you say I’m wrong. I just want to make money, I don’t want that, but if you look closely, there are a few happy Taoist priests who say that and everyone can’t turn around. This old man thinks that the Taoist priest has feudal thoughts and residual consciousness. He always stands with Fuxi. The Taoist priest really doesn’t seem to be like that, so he said Of course, what the Taoist tells you is the secret. Of course, if you like it, just listen. The Taoist also says, if you don’t like it, let him go. If there is another possibility, it is that there are many big sister-level figures who pay attention to the great fortune. If there is another possibility, what is it? It is said that we women have indeed turned over. Nuwa has woken up, and women have indeed become the head of the family. Isn’t this an exchange of yin and yang? Isn’t this normal? Water and fire are combined, fire and water are not combined, yin and yang blend together, etc. But let’s not make it a mistake. Let’s say that by that day, women will indeed dominate the world. Okay, then men must surrender. He said that men will completely become inmates. What? Men become housekeepers, women who carry the load, and women who go out to conquer the world. But it’s really not like that now. Let’s be honest, do you think that? Is it to that extent? If the Taoist priest also supports it, then what? A man takes care of the baby at home and cooks and then you earn money to support the man. But what is it now? You still want the man to take care of the baby, you want the man to have the baby, you want the man to make money, and you want the man to give you money before you get married. The stupid thing is that the Taoist priest does not take sides, and men are not stupid either. What has happened in the past few years? It is enough to guarantee that what our Taoist priest is saying is that women have better survival. Let’s not talk about whether we can turn the world around after we survive. The only thing that can guarantee you is to thoroughly understand my five thousand literature. If you have learned it thoroughly, the Taoist priest just said that it is possible to overturn the world. Of course, the law is also a rule. He is like this. There are no rules. Why can Fuxi and Nuwa, or our ancestors Fuxi and Nuwa, be harmonious? At least they still exist now. Sure, this is what the Taoist priest can sense. If they don't exist, they fight again. We don't exist anymore. We are gone. We are pinched, pinched, and re-created. It's because they don't exist. He was convinced by her and she was not convinced by him, but with the corresponding laws of cognition and the rules that restricted them, they lived in peace and harmony for thousands of years and tens of thousands of years. Only then did we have the 5, 000 or 8, 000 years of human beings that we know as what we think of as a history of human beings. If Nuwa and Fuxi don't understand the rules, they just want what I say, and if they want what I say, they just do it. We are gone a long time ago, so at least they still have some rules, or there are rules that you haven't recognized yet and you don't know. This is what the Taoist priest mentioned again. Last time, another Taoist friend asked in the message area. He didn't understand the word "rules" very well. Here, the Taoist priest said that rules not only fulfill our yin and yang, but also restrict each other between yin and yang. Without rules, there would be no circle. I don’t want to use rules, I don’t want to use rules, but I have to have them. It ’s just like if you just have rules, it won’t work. Just having rules won’t work. Of course, there is another problem here. With rules, we will feel constrained, and we will feel uncomfortable. Just like if you use rules and rules, When it comes to drawing, he can't draw the other shapes of the universe, but he can draw circles and squares, and you can't say that he has no effect, but he has certain constraints, but at least at certain times he is very useful, so this is Yi. Have you seen the rules taught by the Classics and Laozi's Tao Te Ching? The five thousand texts of the I Ching and Lao Tzu's Tao Te Ching also correspond to yin and yang and also correspond to rules. You can't just use rules. You can't just use rules. So you must have rules, and rules are for The agreement between the two parties must not be for one party. Don't say that I will set a rule for you. You can use the rules of Yin and Yang Yili that the Taoist preached and go back to set up your mother to set up your father. Go home to set up your husband and your children. Then you are not rebelling. Half of the time, you go to set up other people and half of you. I always think like this. What will it be like if this thing happens to you? It is even set for yourself. When you understand the effect of rules on you, you will know the effect on the other person. You will be able to understand how important this rule is. He will be able to maintain a relative stability, at least maintain the relative stability of the world you are in now. Only when everyone is stable can we continue to move forward. Without rules, the world will collapse. There must be rules behind it. Let’s not look at it as a rule. The way the natural universe operates, but no matter how it is above our ability to understand or above our life dimension or wisdom dimension, there must be their operating laws and their rules. The planets in the sky also rely on laws and rules, otherwise they all come into contact with each other. This is the same principle. All planets in the universe have laws and rules. If there are no rules, then if you take a step forward, you will be pulled over by the earth. He must be driving according to those rules until now. The Taoist priest said that we are still trying after such a long time. What is rebellion? Rebellion. I do n’t know the rules. Is it possible to rebel against Tiangang and rebel against yin and yang? It’s not possible. The Taoist priest just said that. Unless you reach a certain level and surpass a certain level in the future, it ’s impossible. Taoist priest, look at what else is there. Taoist friends also proposed a concept of time and space. This concept is a bit too advanced. It is also physical. The Taoist priest has not studied that aspect deeply. The Taoist priest only talks about the concepts of time and space from the perspective of Lao Zhuang and from the perspective of our Yi. The concept of time is for us billions of years long. The river seems very long, but for Fuxi and Nuwa, it is very short. People may not understand it and say that it is not important to them. It is not important. We think that we have spent so much effort to create civilization for thousands of years. If Fuxi and Nuwa go to war or not to fight and say that they think these clay figurines are not very good, he may be angry. Come on, pinch it again. It’s that simple. Just put some mud and pinch it again. Then you think our civilization will end or end. It doesn’t necessarily mean that you can pinch it into the mud and continue pinching again and start over again. This is the concept of time. If you understand this, your dimension will be much improved. The concept of space has been taught by the Taoist Master last time and he drew it again. Nine blocks and nine blocks is what he calls space, but these 9 blocks are completely insurmountable for those of us within 9 blocks, not to mention that it is completely intertwined in certain sectors or at a certain time, you may have an intervention in others. This is the feeling of many science fiction films nowadays. It is said that this nine-dimensional space or It says that there will be penetration between the 9 different dimensions of your life. Theoretically, time overlaps in no particular order. Don’t look at it now. We just talked about 9, 000 years. Space also overlaps. There is no distinction between east, west, north, and south. This is the concept of time and space. Fellow Taoists, if you still don’t understand, Taoist Master will explain it and you will understand. If we talk about time, If the Taoist priests are not overlapping, they will not be able to approve your horoscopes and Yi Xue will have no meaning in existence. Just because time is overlapping, the point of birth is the point of death, and the point of birth is a moment in your life that represents everything you have done for a hundred years. So you say that time is not overlapping? So what does the Taoist priest read or what does Yi Xue show? Especially the horoscope, if you press this to display, there is no such key node, that second, how does the horoscope contain so much information? It does contain it. So if you use the horoscope to say that a slice of time is the thousands of years in history, you see it is amazing, so this is the Yi Xue Yi you have to learn. First, expand yourself into a dimension, and say you are just a bacterium on a small point in this slice, which may not even count, but you also include this slice, including everything in the entire universe. So do you think this time has any meaning in it? It is meaningless. It means that time is not divided here. If the sequence is determined in terms of Yi Shang, or in terms of horoscopes, if you insist on ranking it, it will only be based on your ability to understand. The Taoist priest will divide your life into decades and tell it to you. It will only be based on your ability to understand. Theoretically, if they do not exist at the same time, in theory, the information at that moment will be available to you all the time. Dimensions, everything in your life is already destined in that area. If there is no modern scientific physics theory or the theoretical basis of the concept of time and space that you understand, you will regard the horoscope as superstition, nonsense, and metaphysics. In fact, it is really not metaphysics. This will gradually become scientific metaphysics and future people. We walked together and came from here. This is also what the Taoist priest analyzed. In the past, many Taoist friends asked why the horoscope contains information about a person or a person's life. The reason is that time is not in the order you understand. Birth means everything. A little bit means everything. So when you understand this, it will be fun. That would be very, very fun. All the lives of all people, the life of all one thing, the life of your company, the life of all countries, the life of all planets, are destined at the moment of birth. This is the underlying rationale and scientific basis for our batch of horoscopes. So based on this basis, of course there are some that are not called horoscopes, but are general. There is such a point when something starts, and when we find out that point, we can speculate, which is no longer called speculation. We can see the future, and the future cannot be called to see all the things that happen at the same time. Based on this, you can understand that whether it is a Taoist priest, a Westerner, or some experts can use other methods. Reading the information about what happened in other parallel universes in this universe or what happened in what he said will happen in the future is because of this reason. Those things have already happened and are destined to happen. They are included in the information at this moment in the early stage. So how powerful are the ancients? How powerful is Fuxi? Fuxi has gone through countless reincarnations. Nuwa went through what we think of as thousands of years of observation, and then Fuxi was repeatedly pinched by the God above. In the process of re-creating Fuxi, she accumulated countless reincarnations of high technology, the demise of mankind, and so on. Countless reincarnations of these high-intelligence information were integrated together for us to study. After the Yi, we still treat men and women as trivial matters. How superficial is this study? So in the final analysis, what is Yi teaching us? This point of Yi, the point of the sun and the moon, are all the great ways of the movement of the universe. Then I will give you a precise and detailed analysis. Of course, why the ancients did not let you learn is because they are afraid that you will be confused and afraid that you will be confused. I'm afraid that you'll collapse in your studies, I'm afraid that you'll die in your studies, so I have five thousand texts to cool you down and tell you not to study too carefully. Not everyone can study it. If anyone can study it and understand it, he will study it. If he doesn't have the understanding, don't study it, just study the Tao Te Ching honestly. Calm down and have nothing to do. Drink some tea and wait at home. What should be given to you is what is given to you. What should not be given to you is what is not given to you. It has been written down from the moment you were born. It is as simple as that. So I tell you that this is it. But some Taoist friends keep saying that if we are doing good deeds and accumulating virtue, practicing and learning Kunde, it is meaningless. The point is here, but I tell you it is. What? We may use some other methods to make your predetermined destiny feel better. Taoist priest doesn’t know whether it is good or not. I really don’t know. But what is the purpose of Laozi, especially Laozi and Zhuangzi, especially Zhuangzi? Let your predetermined destiny make you feel better. Then you say we survive and live. What are you saving? Isn’t it just what you feel? Do you really think you want others to feel? Others feel your pain. No one can feel your wealth. It’s just you who feels my pain. I feel myself. I don’t have money. I feel myself. It 's a bit awesome, right? This is the great thing between Laozi's Tao Te Ching and the I Ching. The I Ching teaches you like that. What do I tell you? You know that, you won't be of much use, but I can tell you a trick to make you feel that the world is not like that. The world is beautiful, but if you feel it, then it is really beautiful. I tell us This is really not chicken soup, so it’s really fun for everyone to study carefully. The Five Thousand Classics and the I Ching are really fun, especially when you compare the things described by them in the left hand I Ching and the right hand Tao Te Ching. Of course, sometimes it’s easy for people who are just starting to ask. I always feel that there is a conflict between them, and I even think that there is a conflict between the I Ching. There are conflicts between the virtues and the classics. Isn’t that nonsense? That’s right. The Taoist priest said that’s what happened. There is indeed a conflict, but in the end they come together. So it’s fun. However, the Taoist priest would like to remind you that children who are too young are not recommended to learn the Tao Te Ching. Some Taoist priests can also see the six on the Internet. When I'm seven or ten years old and I'm sitting there talking to you, it's probably because my mother and father are willing to listen. Of course, the Taoist priest still said that there's nothing wrong with memorizing it, but the Taoist priest doesn't recommend teaching it. It's okay to memorize classics like the Yellow Emperor's Internal Classic and the Tao Te Ching from a young age, because he will cultivate a certain spirit in you, but you shouldn't let him talk about this stuff, right? Children talk about it, even Taoist priests say, you should not talk about it before the age of 30, and even after 50 years old, Confucius dared to talk about it after 50 years old. Yi did not mean that he had not seen it before, and he did not dare to say it. This is the truth, especially when talking about Lao Tzu's Tao Te Ching, it is really not something that anyone can explain to children. At first glance, you will think that is what it is. If you think about it more carefully, it will easily trick your children. So I, the Taoist priest, suggested that you memorize the Five Thousand Texts and don’t let your children talk about it. Of course, children can learn the I Ching, which is a bit like how we learn addition and subtraction. At least after learning the I Ching, when they go to society, they will not be entangled or angry, and they will be able to get what they want. Anything is fine, wait. I am telling you to let go of everything that does not belong to you in these five thousand articles, and you have to accept the consequences of letting go with peace of mind. Don’t be ungrateful. That’s not okay. Or maybe there are some things that you learned so easily that you didn’t get them in the end. Then you have to research and see if there are other ways. It's one thing, and I'm telling you that these five thousand articles are indeed there, and there are some other things in it. The other things are higher than that dimension. Only when you look at it will you suddenly realize that this is the case. So when it comes to this, fellow Taoists, you know, let's say that if you have experienced a lot of things now, you want to calm yourself down. Come down, of course you have to learn Laozi's Tao Te Ching. Your body, health, career, and marriage have gone through a lot of twists and turns. Don't talk about wives and children being separated. Don't say all kinds of bad words, just talk about what you have experienced. Hurry up and learn Lao Tzu's Tao Te Ching. You must not get started easily this time. You will be easy to learn and misunderstand. Don't learn those things this time. If you are trying to bend yourself in a weird way, don’t learn it. Just read Lao Tzu’s Tao Te Ching down to earth. Then you will understand. You will understand why you have been fighting for nothing for so many years and ended up like this in the end. That thing is very clear and clear. I told you in just a few words. But if you Research is easy, it's possible, maybe it doesn't mean that research doesn't understand, you may not understand until 10 years later, but it's hard to say whether you can survive until 10 years later, especially if you are a girl. If you have experienced half a life of ups and downs, misfortune, and now your husband has run away, the child is also awarded to him. Then you should study Laozi's Tao Te Ching first. I don't recommend that you will go crazy if you learn Yi. This is why many friends, who are also female, Taoist priests have always said that it is suitable for boys to learn Yi. It is not suitable for girls. It is not just nonsense. It is also supported by data and data. Boys sometimes ask these questions, they are indeed asking about knowledge related to Yi. What the girl is asking is really wrong. You don’t know what he will ask. He will make you angry. So based on this Taoist priest, you can only say that his IQ may not be as high as that of boys. Of course, if the Taoist priest extends it further, from ancient times to the present, you can see that there are How many people have learned Yi or used Yi to do things? If you find one or two female Taoist priests, they are all considered Taoist priests. It is true that if you count them on your fingers, they are all men. Yes, there are women too, but they are very, very few. This is why the Taoist priests may have gone away after talking. We will come back. Ah, in short, it means that men have a higher ability to comprehend and accept the Yixue than women. This is what he should learn. Of course, again, don’t go too far. In short, don’t talk about men and women. Just say that there is no place for the release of yang energy between yin and yang. Then you just learn the Yi. He lets you To put it bluntly, if you originally wanted to do something but you don’t know how to do it, then you should learn how to do it. Yiyi will teach you how to do it. But if you say that you are done now and have no energy, you have broken it and you can’t do it anymore, then you can only learn from Lao Tzu’s Five Thousand Wen to cultivate your inner Kunde. Men must also cultivate Kunde. Your ability to carry money. If you don’t have money in the past, it doesn’t necessarily mean that you haven’t earned it. This includes men, not just women. It could be something else. Your ability to carry money is weak, so it’s just this money. When it comes to you, it goes out. When it comes to you, it goes out. You think you’re working hard to earn it, but one person earns 1 million and the other person brags about 2 million. If you make money today and go out tomorrow, it means you don’t have the ability to control these wealth, these things, your health, all of them are going in the same direction. Then why are you fighting? Then you have to learn from me on this matter. You have to learn how they are restrained and how they became what they are. In fact, I have never told you. Give up completely. Zhuangzi tells you that sometimes you just give up completely. But I really don’t have the wisdom of Lao Tzu. That ’s why Lao Tzu’s wisdom is really written for the people of the world, the king of the world, and those who still want to do things. He tells you that there is another way to get what you want without any effort. Instead of fighting and fighting to get things like Yi did, these are the wisdom of the Yi Jing and Laozi's Tao Te Ching. Look at Taoist friends, there are also some targeted at academics or some Taoist priests who find fault with the Taoist priests. Those who are willing to reply will say something, and those who are unwilling to reply will be blocked in the future. The Taoist priest here today emphasizes that the Taoist priest tells stories, talks about metaphysics, and talks about 'nothing'. If you keep throwing the word 'you' up, the Taoist priest may get angry. This is the difference between storytelling and academic research. What is storytelling about? Interesting, and then it talks about enlightening your mind. If you are not engaged in academic research, there will be something more sophisticated. So sometimes it sounds like you are wrong and you are right. Of course, those who engage in academic research may be fundamentally wrong. In the end, what is the use of so many studies? Even Yixue sometimes says that he does not support it. Besides, you are engaged in academic research, so the Taoist priest still said, don’t ask the Taoist priest to talk about this. There is no strict reasoning logic in telling long stories. The Taoist has only one principle. Everyone, listen carefully. The Taoist has only one principle to tell stories. Yin and Yang cannot be told to people. Those who are against the bottom cannot be told. You cannot tell those who are against the bottom. You cannot tell those who are against the second and fifth lines. You cannot tell those who are against the characters, years, roles, and times. The Taoist can use it as he pleases, and you can use it as he pleases. Never take out that book. The Taoist priest will easily tear up your book when you come to see him. So when you say you are listening to a story, you are just listening to the story. The story is completely compiled by the Taoist priest. Some Taoist friends even asked where to buy the Book of Clouds and Seas, which was compiled by the Taoist priest. To give you a small example, I occasionally browse blogs to see what the good ones have. I found a problem. They are all male and female. Why are they like this? In fact, they are one yin and one yang, so generally good programs will have one male and one female. This is called the combination of men and women. It’s not tiring to work. Listen carefully and follow a paragraph and you will post. Discover their characteristics, and then one day you find that the woman is on leave. In fact, the woman is usually a supporting role. Daochang said that not only blogs, but also some large websites with high traffic in foreign countries also have this characteristic, that is, men mainly focus on Yang. Men just keep talking, as if there are all kinds of astronomy and geography. It's more powerful than Fuxi, it's right, it 's in line with the way of yin and yang, and the woman just said, sit aside and dress up Wen Wen quietly, only occasionally saying " Hey, why is this like this? " It 's like a little cute feeling, this is yin and yang. If the Taoist priest assumes that there is a man and a woman, the man says, "What is this? " Let’s say for example, let’s talk about the horoscope. The woman said something wrong. I think women are men and men are women. I think women should occupy the yang position. Think about it now, what will the man say in this lesson? How about going on? Or the audience is listening to them. Will they still watch? Then the audience will just leave. What the audience wants to see is this feeling, yin and yang. A man and a woman are very harmonious and then it will penetrate into his heart. He feels that he is not watching two people performing. He feels that he is watching one person performing. This is the truth. But when it comes to a person, if you have opened up the yin and yang, for example, if you are a man who speaks very calmly or is particularly neutral, and you are particularly tolerant and the yin and yang are balanced in your body, then you may be liked by both men and women. But if you have not reached this level, then you can only work with men and women. It is not tiring, but there are still many times. That situation is like a show hosted by a man and a woman. Suddenly one day, the woman did not come because of some special circumstances, and a man hosted it. The man didn’t know what to say. The Taoist priest really paid attention to a section. It was like this. The man really didn’t know what to say. Then he would confess that today, that little one asked for leave. Then I couldn’t find the feeling, so I just chatted with everyone for a few words. It really didn’t feel. You see, this is interesting. Normally, you think that the woman doesn’t play an important role next to you, but he also plays a big role. If the Taoist priest gives another example, don't mention one man and one woman. It is easy to lead you astray, and it is easy to escalate to the confrontation between men and women. You can also talk about yin and yang. For example, in the cross talk between Guo Degang and He Qian, they hold each other and tease each other. I heard that I can only add a few sentences at the right time, so sometimes it’s more interesting to do it. You think it’s great, but some people say that he didn’t come today, so Mr. Qian didn’t come, and it’s boring to have Mr. Guo Degang talking. Sometimes, but it’s okay, sometimes it’s okay, but sometimes if he’s talking about a double speaker. It would be meaningless if only one person talks about cross talk, so it is all said to be the way of male and female, but in fact it is also the way of yin and yang. In the end, the way of yin and yang is also the way of male and female. Yes, but you have to consider this when you are not balanced. This is the reason why you have to consider it now if you want to blog audio or really want to compete for the video outside. If you are a very masculine man, you must be matched with a gentle and gentle little girl. Of course, if you are a weakling, For a weak man, you can match him with a sharp woman like Xiao S. This is all okay and then use her as the yang. Have you seen it? It is also okay to use him as the protagonist and your negative man to match him. But in short, few people can watch the show where two people are fighting against each other. It is definitely two people fighting against each other. If no one is reading, I will simply extend this from the relationship of yin and yang between men and women to discuss the Tao of Yin and Yang and the Tao of Lao Tzu. In the past two days, a Taoist friend asked me about a topic. The Taoist Master just said that he answered as soon as he thought about it. It is time to talk about it now because after a while, after this stage of sharing, you may have to go from front to back. A question asked by a fellow Taoist is the essential difference between witches and Fuxi. Yesterday, there was a fellow Taoist. He had listened to the Taoist for a long time and performed very well. He always summed it up to fellow Taoists. The Taoist thought that he was already at a very high level. To be honest, he had shared this aspect before and didn't take it seriously. But I didn't expect him to ask. What does this mean when this kind of topic comes up? There are still many Taoist friends who don’t understand this topic. What is it? They just talk about the modern kind of debut, or the great immortals like Red, Yellow and White Willow. The essential difference between learning Yi or the difference from Taoism. This Taoist priest seems to have shared it before in a certain music or outside. The Taoist Master will emphasize again today what is the difference between them. We are also based on the last sharing that the emergence of witches is because Nuwa wants to rule the world. Of course, the word rule is not nice. She wants to make the world a better place. People who want to eradicate some evil or sin in the world through some methods, or want to make the world want something, Nuwa will appear in the world as a spokesperson. Now this is a witch, and this witch has always existed, from shamans thousands of years ago to today's red, yellow, and white willows, etc. , including other Taoist priests who may not have named small fairy families, etc. , they are all considered witches. Their communication method, the Taoist priest said again, through what, you ask him, and he will ask the above to explain to you. If you can't beg a man, go and beg a witch. Then the witch goes back to you. The witch itself can't handle this problem. Why can't it be dealt with? The Taoist priest said it last time because the witch didn't learn Yi. I'm sure witches don't deal with things by Yi, not by heaven, not by Taoism, nature, and not by Qimen. Yijing Bagua and Fuxi are completely different. What do witches rely on? You burn incense and beg me, and then I'll burn incense. My company. After I connected with Nuwa, Nuwa told me how to do it and I will tell you how to do it. But Nuwa is sleeping these days and you may not be connected. That's the reason. Or the witch is also sleeping and you are not connected. The witch has hired a lot of spokesmen, which are the Taoist priests we have today. Inserting a sentence here is not to evaluate whether they are right or wrong, nor to evaluate whether they are good or not, so that they can use it. It is such a principle, but it is true that the Taoist priest has come into contact with the folk. There are some experts who can really connect with the witches, but they have a probability. For example, if they can connect seven or eight times out of 10 times, the probability is already very high. It has never been 100 %. In the end, he understood in his heart that he was not connected or not, but he had to give you some explanation. Otherwise, if you took the money in vain, he would tell you to go to the east to seek wealth. In fact, the east may be your god of jealousy, but it is possible. The east is also your god of joy, so he said he did not understand Yi. He said it completely based on intuition. Of course, he might have said that I didn't feel anything today. Come back tomorrow. He begged him tonight. He just begged the witch and said, "Please give me a dream. " The witch will also entrust you with a dream to ask for immortality. Then she will give you a solution in the dream, but she will not be reasonable. For example, if your child is sick and there is no solution today, you will seek immortality. I dreamed about it at night. I dreamed about you. What's going on? Why is there something going on in your house? You want to burn something and tinker with it. Just go back and you can finish burning it. Just tinker with it. The Taoist priest just said that it's possible, but it's possible that it's not the problem. So don't be picky. If you really want to be with Xianxian, Xianxian will be easily angry with him. If you are disrespectful, you have to show your attitude towards the Taoist priest. If the immortal family is easy to beat you, why do you think this is so? Can you explain to me the basis? Then he may open the door and tell you to get out, or if you ask again, you will be easily punished. But If you ask the chief, it's okay. You pick it over and over again and ask the chief. He just says to see if the chief has a good temper. If he has a good temper, he may chat with you for a while and if he has a bad temper, he may ignore you. But the chief will not tell you that if you pick again and again, you will be punished. The Taoist priest will definitely not say this, and using Yi Li to solve problems is not the case. Yi Li's solution to the problem has little to do with the person he is solving. The Taoist priest is not Fuxi's spokesperson. It is certain that the Taoist priest has no direct relationship with Fuxi and is not under his leadership. All Taoist priests are not under Fuxi's leadership. We only use the symbols, six lines and eight trigrams recorded by Fuxi. Then we learn his reasoning process, and we use this process to use your suggestions. The original point and your basis are based on the original point of your matter. The eight characters are based on the original point of your birth. We use these things to make yourself understand. You can also reason. So strictly speaking, there is no blame in handling things with the eight characters. You can only say it is the level of my level. If you find a teacher who is not good at it and makes mistakes with Yili, he has no problems. It proves that he is not good at solving problems and he solved the problem wrong. It is such a simple truth. Ah, let’s just say that the way of handling things is completely different from that witch. Of course, the Taoist priest also said that everything has good and bad points. He didn’t learn Yi, he didn’t learn Fuxi, and he didn’t learn Bagua. He just said that he understood this. The Taoist priest had shared it before. He said that you have heaven and earth. If Tai Sui comes to scare you and then takes your money, he will be responsible for your luck. He is guilty. Sooner or later, there will be problems. But you have really tried your best and you have learned. There is no solution for not being good at art, that is, there is a probability that everyone is not good at learning. So what do you think there is a way to do? Strictly speaking, there is no problem, so everyone should separate these two points, so don’t panic. If you want to learn Yi, you are afraid, or if you meet that immortal, you will be afraid. The Taoist still said that there is no good or bad. Or do you understand that the Taoist recently said that Fuxi has not slept for thousands of years and taught everyone some Yi, and everyone will learn it. If the real Nuwa wakes up and tells everyone that you should not learn the Yi, it is not impossible that she is the spokesperson of all witches. Only our immortals and certain people in the West can connect with Nuwa through some psychic channels with witches. They are all in their own way. They may use their own way to rule the world. It is not impossible, but whether it is a man or a woman, if you learn the Tao of Yi, you may be able to avoid some potential risks, or between witches and Fuxi in the future, or Fuxi's learning of Yi. To put it bluntly, whether there will be a big conflict between Taoism and Immortalism is hard to say, but Taoist priest can't say. The leader can only say that they are not sure now, because the energy of Taoism is now the right way, and the energy of Yi is also the right way, and the energy of Xianjia is not right and insignificant compared to the energy of Taoism. He is very small. This Taoist priest does not mean any disrespect. You can understand it, just like when you watch the ghost-catching movie, you, a vixen who has practiced for thousands of years, will always hide when he sees the old Taoist priest. He may meet a little Taoist boy, and he may want to tinker with you. If he meets you, an unstable 20-year-old fresh-blooded Taoist, he may want to tinker with you. But if you meet an old master, he is really afraid of you. This is the truth. This is the right way. This is the great road. This is also the reason why all the immortal practices are connected to the above through the way of witches. Our Taoist priest cannot say that it is not the right way. Just say that his energy field is far lower than the energy field of Dao and Yi, so he will never be able to cause too much trouble. Therefore, Daoist priest personally knows some Taoist priests who are really capable of immortality. He also tells them to learn some Yi if they have nothing to do. This will improve his own practice and his ability to help people deal with things. Really, when people come to you, you are not connected. You have some Yi in hand, can you handle it? Of course, he does not have this ability in this area. Sometimes, this is the case. If he is spiritually good, he can just pass it. He will be lazy and he will think that I can just burn incense tonight. Why should I spend 10 years to learn Yi? So this is the case here. They are two ways. Yesterday, a Taoist friend asked about the essential difference between Xianjia and Yi Shang or learning Bazi. The Taoist priest told him, and then he asked him again what his reaction was. What is his reaction? It is what everyone calls the folk immortals. They have found you and asked you to take action. If you don't take action, they will keep tossing you. Today, the Taoist priest said point eight. If you are in your grade, no one will tell you what to do. You must be cautious about this. First, if you are really ill or deficient, you need to be sure and tell what kind of illness you are. If you just have a headache and a cold, you just have a fever recently, you just have the flu, etc. , then you think you are a fairy? Isn’t it funny to come to you? So the first thing I said is that you have to eliminate everything in a normal way. You should go to the hospital for a checkup and take medicine. Then I found out that your illness has not been cured for 3 years and it is always amazing. For example, suddenly you do Or in other words, it is incomprehensible to ordinary people. Normally, you are just like normal people. Then you may have to consider whether there is a problem in that area. You cannot suddenly have a little problem in the past two days and just think about it. I will tell you, Xianjia. The selection of people is very strict. I won't say that I have to search for people all over the road. This is for sure. I won't say that I have no ability at all. I have nothing left to do. I am not good at it. I do n't know anything and ca n't do anything. Why are the immortals looking for you? Nuwa is a good witch. People are looking for you. Haha, why don’t you understand this? Just say that if you don’t have anything you can afford to put down, the fairy family won’t look for you. Just say it must be. You are usually a very powerful person and you have experienced a lot of things. Then you often After experiencing setbacks, or being ill for a long time, or being terminally ill, or saying that you can’t find the terminal illness and you can’t get better, then suddenly you feel like this. You feel that others are looking for you. This is the possibility. In recent years, there has indeed been a trend of proliferation of immortals. Taoist Master Shi still said that he did not rule out the existence of real immortals, but there were indeed too many false ones. Two days ago, a fellow Taoist chatted with the Taoist Master, and they started chatting offline. He said that his building is not a community, and there are two immortals upstairs. Both of them are ladies. He calls this watching things. Because he has actually been with Taoist priests for many years and he can't tell the difference between Taoist priests now and those immortals. He thinks that we are all just looking at things, making the Taoist priest dumbfounded. The Taoist priest is too lazy to explain because you can't explain it to him, but he can't explain it to fellow Taoists. Fellow Taoists, I believe you will understand after what the Taoist Master said this time. It is indeed true that the Taoist Master is different from them. The Taoist Master also sees things, but it is different from the so-called immortal family’s way of seeing things. We use this kind of natural way, the way of Yili, the Six Yao Bagua Fuxi’s reasoning. The Taoist way is to deduce the result of one thing, and the Immortal family is direct, direct, direct, direct, direct, and it is over. This is the truth. Let me say a few more words about this Taoist priest. I am sure that the Taoist priest is now easy to learn or eight characters and six lines. Now it is certain that he is not only recognized by us. It is recognized by the world and may be officially listed as a course not only in universities but also in the world in the future, especially BaZi. This is certain, so in terms of learning, there is no problem. This has been passed, whether it is through intelligent AI or our search. It can be seen that if you search for something related to immortals, it will definitely not be able to give you a result. But if you want to search BaZi, it can give you a result, which proves that it is in line with the reasoning and calculation process. So don’t worry about learning on this point. Of course, Taoist priests will not hold classes. If you study with any teacher, you will not be confiscated. Of course, the possibility of class is another matter if you have all the other offline business licenses. Just say that it will not put you into feudal superstition. But as for the Immortal Family, it is definitely still an unknown area. Although it has existed for thousands of years, it is not clear at least now at any time. Give him an identity or at least he will not be recognized until Nuwa wakes up. So when it comes to doing this, we can only tell the fellow Taoists that you have to be careful or the Taoist priest said that if you really have a fairy family and a witch comes to you and makes you insist on doing this, if you don't do it, then you do n't have to do it. If you have a way, then you can only do it, but if you want to survive, the Taoist priest still says that it is not recommended. You just want to make some money. This is not recommended at the moment because it is not easy to do now. The market competition is too fierce. And then you can only say that people nowadays are smarter. If you really do it once or twice, it is different from the past three or five times. Just say that in order to support yourself, I don’t recommend it. Just say that if you have really learned Yi, you can still support yourself. This is the advice of the Taoist priest. Just say that because the Taoist priest has also come into contact with many immortals, he also sees things as they are. Later, he also did Yao Gua, but he also had some contact with the so-called Yao Gua Taoist Priest. For example, if he did not do Six Yao, he would also give you three steel bungees after throwing them away, and then give you the result according to the hexagram. For example, if you are both water and fire, he would say this to you. Taoist priest Ji would also ask if this makes sense. It makes some sense, for example, talking about you and so on, but what is in this more part? Psychological counseling and boredom relief, or boredom guessing. It means that the two of you are chatting, but you can't connect at all today. There is no connection from above, and he doesn't know how to talk to you. It is also possible to expand this based on this hexagram. This is for some people who have a foundation in Yi, for example, if you have been learning Yi for a long time, you can also solve some problems, but if you really can't solve it in the early stage, it's like throwing a steel ingot. I just said that what others said based on this was vivid and even matched for you. I think the Taoist priest also admired them. But the Taoist priest just said that it is not recommended. He just said that it is not recommended to use this method. He said that you must either really learn this well or you have not learned it well. You must not use this to deal with specific things. This may deceive people, and it will also make people who really don’t understand it more confused about the difference between Xianjia and Taoism or the difference between asking questions, Yao, Gua and Liuyao. The difference between him and the Great Immortal is actually confusing the difference between witches and Fuxi. This is not good for the overall development of Yixue or the inheritance of Immortalism and Taoism. The Taoist priest just said that it is supported for you to learn Yiyi for your personal interests or personal hobbies, but you should not use it to fool people before you learn it well. This is a bit too much. It is indeed said that it is the difference between the Tao Te Ching and the Yijing. I haven't waited for the opening of the topic for another hour. So that's it for today. Let's continue tomorrow.
