Timestamp: 2025-02-28T01:53:27.025409
Title: 【强烈推荐】从来没有人告诉你的：关于金钱的真相——油管新晋个人成长博主 Dan Koe 中英字幕 1080p BV1pePyeAEfm
URL: https://b23.tv/7LyYTdo
Status: success
Duration: 39:06

Description:
## Summary of the Content:

Here's a structured summary of the content, along with a conclusion, overarching framework, and mermaid diagram:

**I. Core Ideas:**

*   **A. Money and Psychology:**
    *   Most people struggle with money due to psychological problems, not inherent money problems.
    *   These psychological problems stem from conditioning and beliefs about money (e.g., it's hard to make, evil, etc.).
    *   Your perception of money is determined by your level of development.
*   **B. Levels of Purpose (and Money):**
    *   Individuals progress through levels of purpose: Survival, Status, Creativity, and Contribution.
    *   The purpose of money evolves with each level, from basic survival to fueling creativity and helping others.
    *   These levels apply to other areas of life as well, like fitness.
*   **C. Job vs. Career vs. Calling:**
    *   A *job* is simply for survival.
    *   A *career* involves commitment and development.
    *   A *calling* is work you're obsessed with and others will pay you for.
    *   Ideally, one should strive for a calling.
*   **D. Money as a Tool for Potential:**
    *   Money is a tool to solve problems and achieve your potential.
    *   Business is a structure for distributing value and solving problems.
    *   Businesses in the survival/status stage often seem "unspiritual."
*   **E. Making Money as a Skill:**
    *   Making money is a skill that can be learned and mastered.
    *   Key steps:
        *   Understand individual psychology (starting with yourself).
        *   Create a solution to a problem (health, wealth, relationships, happiness).
        *   Build, borrow, or buy an audience.
        *   Systemize promotion and delivery.
        *   Iterate and persist.
*   **F. The importance of building an audience:**
    *   Building an audience and making money from digital products and services.
    *   The product can start from courses, templates, or events that the creator have already learned and mastered.

**II. Core Point (Conclusion):**

Overcoming psychological barriers and developing the right skills allows anyone to create financial autonomy and a fulfilling life where work and passion intertwine.

**III. Overarching Framework:**

The content presents a hierarchical framework of personal and professional development related to money, moving from psychological understanding to skill acquisition, culminating in a purpose-driven approach to wealth creation and contribution.

**IV. Mermaid Conceptual Map:**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph LR
    subgraph Psychology [Psychology of Money]
        A[Scarcity Mindset] --> B(Psychological Problems);
        A --> C(Conditioning & Beliefs);
        B --> D{Limited Opportunities};
        C --> D;
    end

    subgraph PurposeLevels [Levels of Purpose]
        E(Survival) --> F(Status);
        F --> G(Creativity);
        G --> H(Contribution);
        H --> I{Fulfilling Life};
        style E fill:#f9f,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
        style F fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
        style G fill:#ffc,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
        style H fill:#cff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    end

    subgraph CareerPath [Career Progression]
        J(Job) --> K(Career);
        K --> L(Calling);
        L --> I;
        style J fill:#fcf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
        style K fill:#afa,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
        style L fill:#faa,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    end

    subgraph SkillAcquisition [Money-Making Skills]
        M[Understand Psychology] --> N(Create Solution);
        N --> O(Build Audience);
        O --> P(Systemize Promotion);
        P --> Q(Iterate & Persist);
        Q --> Autonomy[Financial Autonomy];
        style M fill:#eee,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    end

    A --> E;
    D --> E;
    E --> J;
    B --> K;
    G --> L;
    Autonomy --> I;
</Mermaid_Diagram>


Content:
 Most people struggle with money. That's a fact because money is deeply intertwined with modern survival It impacts every single area of your life Even if you weren't thinking about money, you're thinking about money. Your health depends on your money. The sanity of your relationships depends on a baseline amount of money. Now you can say that that's unfair and complain about how it shouldn't be that way, but I would heavily disagree. Now, I'm not here to tell you that the truth of money was somehow hidden from you, like this is some esoteric secret. It's right in front of your eyes, but you just can't see it because of what we're going to talk about. The first thing that we're going to do is not blame anyone but yourself for the situation that you're in. You didn't question how your arrays developed a terrible psychological relationship with money, and because of that you fail to understand that making money is a skill. You can make as much as you want. You just didn't take the time to study, practice, and master that skill. Now my goal with this video is to install the right money programming into your head, as that's the first step to making as much as you want. And I understand completely if this is starting to come off as some kind of sketchy video of me teaching you how to make money in a secret way, this isn't any secret. I'm just showing you what is blatantly there. So here's what we're going to talk about. Why money problems don't exist, but psychological problems do, and how to remove your scarcity mindset. The difference between a job, career, and calling, so you can earn an income doing what you want, a new perspective on money, and how it's your key to a fulfilling life, not the thing that's preventing a fulfilling life like many would tell you, and a complete breakdown of how to make money in any economic situation, because making money is a skill. When I say skill, that means you can train yourself to do that thing well. If making money requires a certain input, and the output of that is money, you can master the input. And then once you have the output, money to make more through investing, that's a different skill because we need to face reality here. You want freedom. And now maybe you don't actually want absolute freedom. You want autonomy. There's a difference, right? Freedom is just chaos. It's something that you think you want, but you don't. You're mislabeling autonomy for freedom. Autonomy is the ability to choose your own limits, to choose your own structure, because the mind craves or crave structure. You want that thing, but you need to be in control of it. You would love your own routine and being able to iterate and improve on that routine. But since you don't create your routine, because your routine is the source of your money, then you start to think that you don't want a stable lifestyle. Now, before we begin, I have to continue plugging cortex because it's a big time for us. We've been rolling out access to the waitlist. This is early access. This isn't a full public launch yet. So if you want to join the waitlist queue, we're rolling out 1000 invites a day and we're continuing to increase that as we go. I will flash some early testimonials on the screen of people that have gotten in. We've been absolutely blown away by the reception to it. Now, if you don't know what cortex is, it's a second brain for writers, creators, markers, notetakers, and just people who want a complete knowledge workspace. You can capture any idea, save any highlighter bookmark, create atomic notes, and reference any idea in one view, all in an interconnected database. So if you're tired of saving all of your ideas in random apps and losing all of your best ideas in just long running notes, then consider joining the cortex waitlist. And as you know, I talk about writing in all of my videos because it's a first principle to anything in business, anything in making money. Ideas in this day and age are your resource for building wealth. Ideas are the new oil. So we're giving you a place to manage and organize all of those things. Okay, back to the video. We need to talk about the average money mindset because I'm not saying any of this stuff is bad. I'm just saying this is where most people are. I was in this exact same place. The average person does not have a good relationship with money simply because of how they were raised. Very few people were raised in a household that was comfortable with money because so few people were comfortable with money in order to raise the children to be that way. And your conditioning, your programming shapes the entirety of how you view situations and the opportunities available to you. So we need to be aware of this so that we can notice it and start to reprogram it. Money problems don't exist. Psychological problems do most people's inability to make keep or smartly use money comes down to their beliefs because your beliefs determine the opportunities you can notice to do those things. So here's a list of the average person's view around money. And I was in this same place. You believe money is hard to make. You don't believe money is a domain of mastery like health relationships or your work. You may believe money is evil because of prior negative experiences that programmed you. You aren't interested in starting a business because you only see the vocal surface of sleazy salesman and long work hours. And just a side note there talked about this many times before. If you're an entrepreneur, your job is to solve problems. That's what you do. So if you don't want to work long hours or you don't want to be a sleazy salesman, if you're an entrepreneur, then solve those problems and don't do those things. It's not like those things are just an inherent part of making money that doesn't make any sense. You think everyone is trying to scam you or that any non-mega corporation is a grifter when they're usually independent businesses. You say you support seriously make that stuff make sense. It's like, oh, I support independent businesses. Oh, yeah, let's cheer for the underdog. And then when they start selling something and they don't have the resources that a large corporation does, they can't sell something that is like so mass produced. The independent businesses just get picked apart by this like demonizing mob of people who don't understand that some people can actually benefit from a product that you may not benefit from. So many rant over, you are stuck in survival mode. So you don't see the importance of self development or business and feel the urge to write them off to feel better about your own actions. You don't think you can make a lot of money in your field, which is just plain false. If you can simply observe the top earners in your field, hint, they have a business. Every single one of these beliefs limits how much money you can make. If you don't believe money is a skill, you won't learn that skill. You'll just avoid any and all education that allows you to make more. You won't expand your mind to the level of those that are actually making money. It's not as simple as, hey, I'm here at I'm at this certain level of development. I have this certain skill level. Just give me all this money. Like I'm just going to work hard for eight hours a day. Just give me the amount of money that I want. That's not how it works. Your money has to reflect the value that you give to receive the money. The same thing goes for if you think making money is evil, you're just going to be repulsed by the thought of it. You're not going to want anything to do with it. Anytime someone throws an opportunity your way, like a social media post that teaches you a money making skill, you're just going to be like, oh, nope, that's bullshit. I'm out. And what you don't realize is that that's your only way out of yourself and do's chaos, is to stop doing that. Your perception of money is determined by your level of development. Now, I have a concept of mine called the levels of purpose. The solution to your money problems or psychological problems is to advance through each level. The purpose of money changes as you develop yourself. It starts as a way to survive, becomes a method to acquire status, then becomes a fuel for creativity and expression, then finally transforms into a way to help others advance through similar stages related to money or not. So those are the levels, survival, status, creativity, and contribution. Now, these levels don't only apply to money. They apply to almost everything that you do in your life when you are improving. You go to the gym for status and survival first. You go because you want to look good. You go because you want to be accepted by others. And then eventually once you get into it, once you achieve that purpose, then it transforms into something creative. You start going for longevity. You start discovering your own lie behind it. And then contribution, you start passing down what you know because you know so much and you know you can help other people. And that's what brings you fulfillment. So the first stage or the first level of purpose is survival. And we're going to be talking in terms of money here. Every belief we listed before is pursuing the goal and purpose of survival. Your main purpose is what determines how you perceive situations. You won't notice a money making opportunity in the survival stage because your attention is solely consumed by the house, the mortgage being tired from your job, the relationship problems that splinter off because of those and barely having enough money to think. We've all experienced this survival mode being way too stressed, not being able to have good ideas. This isn't a static stage. You can go into it at any time. If you're extremely stressed, you're probably in survival mode and you're not able to notice the opportunities or find the same zest in life that you were able to before. Now, if you're stuck in this level, like you're just here and you're not trying to get out, you have no idea what life has to offer. So in this stage, you take any job you can get because you have to survive. And at this point in your life, when your goals are the product of your conditioning, you don't have many options for work you enjoy. So this isn't a bad thing. You kind of just have to get the job to survive. You have to solve your survival needs. You need to solve your material needs before you can move forward. You have to kind of work your way up the ladder. You need to develop your skill. You need to get a job. So you escape the survival stage by becoming deeply aware of the beliefs that are holding you back and becoming absolutely disgusted with them. You hit a metaphorical rock bottom in your mind and create this anti vision for your future. So then you can orient yourself with a vision for the future and start to align your actions and problem solving with that. And most of the time in this stage, it's just making more money. And that's okay. You have to to advance to the next levels of purpose. The next level is status because as we've discussed recently, there's never been a time where weak average or mindless people weren't treated like cattle. They weren't just heard it around because they didn't have the skill or independent thought to do something themselves. They didn't have the autonomy. And I understand that it can be very infuriating that the only people who did well in society were those who gained power and influence. But you have to understand that sentence. The only people who do well in society are those who gained power and influence. Now, throw all of your definitions of power and influence out the window because I guarantee if you have a bad relationship with money, you have a bad relationship with those words. And you don't understand where those things can come from. They aren't always evil power. The best way to get power is through empowerment and education and persuasion instead of manipulation. There are ethical ways to gain power and you can only impact and influence and contribute to people, contribute to humanity if you have power. I don't want to hear anyone in the comment sections. That's just like giving me a definition of power when I just told you what the definition we're going to use for this video is. It's not power. Then think of a different word. You reach the status stage when one, you have a sense of security around money and two, you realize the need for others to perceive you as valuable. You cultivate a skill set that allows you to get a better job or start a business. That job allows you to pay the bills, focus on other areas of your life, and make moderate to extravagant superficial purposes. The reason I say purchasing moderate to extravagant things is because during that stage, you're probably going to. You're going to get the new job and you're going to be very happy with that and you might buy the car, you might buy the house, but that's a way to get out of the status stage is you need to realize the impact of those things on your life fast. Now, if you're a mechanic and you love cars, there's nothing wrong with getting a car. That's where you find your meaning in life. If you buy a car and you're just going through things and it's just this superficial status symbol for you and you don't realize that yet, the way out of the status stage is to realize your mistake and try to correct it. Many non-critical thinkers see this as bad, but they don't understand perception or psychology. Humans must notice the surface before they notice the depth. I don't care how great of a personality you have, people do care about looks before deciding to get into a relationship with them. Now, the third level of purpose is creativity. Once you've achieved some level of status, your mind will start to transform. You'll begin to realize all of your mistakes. Those mistakes are new problems to solve, a new purpose to pursue. You may even feel the need to reject everything you've acquired. You won't find the same joy you used to in those superficial pursuits. The money gets old, sleeping around gets old, the cars and watches get old. That is, if you don't get trapped in this stage, right? You can get trapped in any one of these stages. I'm just showing you that money gains more meaning the more you develop yourself through these stages. You can see the typical stereotype of the rich businessman on the yacht with all the watches in this status stage, getting stuck there and abusing it. At this point, you'll start to crave autonomy. You'll realize how slow the progression becomes as you advance higher in the status game and want to take on harder challenges. Because this is why a lot of people get bored. I hear this all the time where very intelligent people are like, I love the comfort of a job. I love the stability. But what they don't realize is that as an entrepreneur or starting a business, you create your own stability. The stability would be better. And the reason you're unhappy and you want to leave that job is because the challenge stopped increasing. Your psyche craves challenge. When you were a child, things were so fresh and new and novel. And life was interesting to you. But then you got into a corporate job, you started climbing the ladder, it slowed down drastically. And now you're in this robotic routine of tasks without any further challenge. And the only way to create the new challenge for your life is to continue hopping from job to job and go through that cycle or to start your business and become an entrepreneur, throw away your definitions of those as well. Just do what you were meant to do, pursue your life's work, and then you have an infinite level of challenge. It's an infinite game at that point. At this point, you're focused on a shift to developing a philosophical sense of mastery around a few pursuits. For bodybuilders, going to the gym starts as a pursuit to feel good about themselves. After a few years, they either quit or reorient toward a new, deeper destination that makes the journey more meaningful. They find joy in feeling good from healthy food. They have such a deep understanding of how their health choices impacts their future. They gain fulfillment from the process of making tiny improvements in the gym. They shift from vanity to therapy. They shift from looks to longevity. So this is the creativity stage and the status stage most of what you learn and do is assigned to you by other people, your parents, your boss, your job. It's what you absorb and learn from others. And then once you gain this traction with your skill set and you see your value and you start to crave the autonomy and creativity, you take your expanded knowledge and you start to create your own way of doing things. And this is where the magic starts to happen. This is where you become irreplaceable. You've tried different training programs, business models, and coping strategies to the point of realizing the patterns and principles between them all. You've unlocked a level of mind that allows you to navigate with grace between them. Your job in the creativity stage is to simply create, create more things, create everything, reject, absolutely reject what you've been told and start to do things from scratch to see if you can create a better way. Break free from the dogmas and ideologies and processes you've adopted from others. Build novel solutions from scratch. This sets you up nicely for the contribution stage. So that's level four is the contribution level of purpose. With a combination of a high value skill set and enough creative experimentation, you realize that you can deeply impact others' lives and feel the pull to do so. So if we think of levels of purpose as concentric circles, like one circle on the outside of another, four circles total, there's a pull to go deeper. You hear that inner voice. You know that voice. It's the voice telling you that you were meant for more in life. And by listening to that, you start to bust through these purposes. You have to make money, then you have to gain status, then you have to be creative, and now it's time to contribute to other people and help humanity in a sense. In this stage, you feel a deep desire to share the things that have improved your life. You begin to see life from a new perspective and wonder why others are constantly distracted with meaningful things. You can see where their life is heading, but they can't. The contribution stage is where there used to be separate domains of your life collapsed into one. You don't see work as somewhere that you clock in and clock out. You don't see rest as the treat that you can only indulge in once work is done. You don't see play as a hobby that lasts 30 minutes at night if you have the time to do it. You see all of them as necessary counterbalances to one another. Work, rest, and play become difficult to distinguish. Rest becomes a way to regenerate your creative ability for your work. Play becomes what you do for work. Work is so deeply integrated with your life that anything you do can be passed down in the form of products or information. Your entire life begins to revolve around how you can best contribute to the world. You become a perspective vessel for reality. You make sense of the world from your mind and pass that perspective for others to adopt and benefit from. If you want more on this, I would highly encourage you to go watch the One-Person Business playlist on my channel. And in the next video, I'm actually going to be talking about the death of the personal brand and a new way of life for people that want to pursue their life's work. In a meaningful way. So back to it, you hunt for and gather information, synthesize it with your experience and distribute it to those who want to benefit from it. Become less of a leech. You don't only consume and take from reality for your selfish personal gain, but you create, share, and contribute back to the world. Now, a few notes about all of these levels, survival, status, creativity, and contribution. They reset when you start a business. When you quit your job to start a business, you're back in survival mode. You need status to acquire the right connections and resources. You begin to crave autonomy from things like client work and tasks you can delegate. You free up mental energy to be creative. Eventually, you will realize that your main purpose is to help other people. Now, the last note is that these levels of purpose follow the transcend and include law. So you never escape the survival stage. You can go back and you can fall down and be in survival mode for a certain amount of time. You can go through these cycles, but you transcend and include. So you go up a stage and then you include a lot of the principles from survival in that stage because you can't do it any other way. It's like matter to life to mind or a word to a sentence to a paragraph, a whole on, a whole and a part. If you were to remove matter from the earth, life and mind would be gone. They wouldn't be able to exist. So without survival and status, creativity and contribution can exist. Now, we're going to get into how making money is a skill and we're going to break all of that down. But first, we need to understand that the art of living is getting paid to play and we need to understand the fundamental difference between a job, a career and a calling. So we'll start with a quote from Alan Watts, sensible people get paid to do what they enjoy. I continue returning to that quote. We have been conditioned since birth to work for everyone but ourselves. We are given assignments past that have already been trodden. We work on these assignments without struggle or conscious thought, leading to a mechanical and replaceable role in society filled to the brim with people who tried to prove their happiness to hide their internal misery. We don't know any better because all we know is what we've been told. We're told to read books we don't care about, to complete projects we don't care about, to prepare ourselves for a life we don't care about. Before you know it, you are trapped in a dense cloud of responsibilities, the resources, time, energy and money that could be used to change your life or exhausted like clockwork. So you have no choice but to remain a productive robot as society's plan for you intended. If you hate your work and it comprises one third of your life and it drains your energy to enjoy the other third and you wear a sleep, the other third, there doesn't seem to be a higher priority than to create, build, design, write, sell, invest, own, experiment and discover a way to control what you do with your day. Now all of that was actually a segment from the new book that I'm writing. I don't know when it's going to be out. I don't want to give the name away yet but that's part of it. What you will discover on your path to purposeful money is the difference between a job, a career and a column. A job is some unpleasant work you do for someone else for the sole purpose of making money. A job is a survival mechanism. A job is one milestone on the path to living up to those who shaped your mind. A job is similar to schools from the perspective that good marketing can make up for a bad product. After centuries of failing to get results, things like schools are still alive and well for the simple reason that very few people go through the trouble of thinking for themselves. Most people do what most people do. Most people aren't okay with the results of most people. But by that point, it's much harder to escape. A career is a commitment to development in your work. A career demands that you pursue a hierarchy of challenging roles and tasks. Psychologically, this brings long-term order and clarity to your mind. With each level of challenge, life becomes more complex and interesting. New paths for knowledge and skill acquisition become apparent. If you want to progress further in a career to an extent, you have to have your life together. So that's a job in a career. That's what they are. But it's the same thing as the levels of purpose where one transcends and includes. A job is not a career, but a career is a job. A job in a career or not a calling, but a calling is a career and a job. A calling is work you can't pull yourself away from and others can't help but pay you for. A calling can't be assigned to you. A calling cannot be pursued under the orders of another. A calling cannot be defined by a set amount of working hours because your mind is always working on it. A calling is found at the point where improvement turns into obsession. A calling is something others won't understand, something that must be cared for, protected, and maintained by the one pursuing it, like a gift that others could accidentally steal. Now, jobs are great for young people who don't know what they want to do yet and simply need to survive. Careers are great for those who want a bit more satisfaction in life because they understand the need for challenging work as a forcing function for self development. And a calling is for those who know they were meant for more. The select few who are willing to take the plunge into the unknown and take full responsibility for the outcome of their life. It's a sad reality that the term work is now perceived as a curse. When the average person thinks about work, their mind floods with familiar paths and predictable futures of stress, overwhelm, and anxiety. When you're at work, you crave to be at rest. When you're at rest, you eventually crave to be at work, a disastrous cycle of never feeling like you are where you want to be. Your mind is anywhere but the present moment. People dream of the perpetual vacation we call retirement, but once they achieve that delusion, it normalizes as everything does. Within a few weeks, you can't help but want to balance being with doing. It should be considered your full time job to create work that feels like play, to escape the narrow view, the extremely narrow view that work is bad and money is evil. So if you're stuck in a job and you're nearing the end of the top of the career ladder, there's one thing that will launch you into the next phase, realizing that money is much, much more spiritual than you think. And that's what we need to talk about the meaning behind money, the spirituality of money. We work and work and work until we earn enough to rest, all to find ourselves unsatisfied with how much we have and how little we are. We drown in survival mode. We never succeed in seeing beyond the responsibilities we were assigned and accepted without question. Wake up, go to work, deal with the boss, eat convenient foods because you don't have the time, skip the good habits you promise yourself you would do because you don't have the energy, watch your life slowly crash as your mind body and relationships unravel into chaos and do nothing about it because it's the only life you know. Realize that work is a necessary part of life. Work is about solving problems. So if you don't work, your life is going to be pretty problematic. The thing is, is that humans love to solve problems, but not just any problems, problems that they deem meaningful, the ones that they choose, the right problems narrow our attention and allow us to forget our worries, the wrong problems and slave our attention and amplify our worries. The difference between the two is that one is chosen and the other is assigned. Problems are the limits on your mind to potential. Once solved, they allow for growth, expansion and evolution. Now money itself is a beautiful invention. It has allowed us to transcend our survival through value exchange. We each have problems that we value solving. So we solve them and soon have the desire to help someone solve them too. But since some people don't have the time, skill or desire, the invention of money allows them to have a different resource to solve the problem with, or at least make it much easier to solve. So if problems are the limits on your potential, the things that prevent you from reaching the next level of purpose, then money is a tool to achieve your potential. Now purpose does not exist without problems. So if we solve problems on the polar end is purpose. So by solving a problem, you pursue a purpose, you discover your part in something greater than yourself. That's what spirituality is discovering your part in the whole, transcending that whole to the next, and then the next until you reach your life's purpose of contribution. Most people in business are trapped in the survival and status stage. That's why you see them as unspiritual. But business is simply a legal structure to distribute value. Not all businesses are evil, but not starting your own ensures that the evil ones will thrive. When you are in the survival or status stage, by not starting a business, you are bound to unconsciously contribute to the businesses you deem as evil by working for a corporation that sickens the masses. In other words, you're demonizing businesses, but you're working for a business that sells a product. And by your standards, it's probably unethical how they do business. But no, don't start your business because it's unethical and your projections are a reflection of yourself. So starting a business would probably be unethical, but is it more or less unethical than the person you work for? Okay, finally, we're going to talk about making money is a skill, not luck. Making money is not about luck. We're far beyond that silly belief. We don't live in that world anymore. Luck is a concept used to describe a lack of understanding of a system. If you understand the system of making money, you can make it at will, considering you actually learn the skills. So here's exactly what you need to understand in order to make as much money as you want. But you have to understand that I'm just not a fan of giving out copy paste business models, because you don't learn anything that way. You can find them anywhere. I encourage you to experiment with those things and try multiple different ones like you would try multiple training programs so that you can create your own with the principles. So what I'm here to do is just give you the principles so you can take these as you're studying and notice the important things that you should actually double down on. Another thing is that if I were to just come in at this point in the video and be like, here's the business model that you choose, and you were to go with it, that's the same thing as just going to school because your parents told you to. Now, I do want to preface that I'm going to inject a few of my principles, the things that I think are more important than the general business advice nowadays. So we'll just get into it. The first thing you need to do is understand the psychology of one person. And that's preferably yourself. Where does money come from? I'm not talking about how the government prints it. I'm talking about how does it get into your hands. The answer is that someone gives it to you. Someone gives you money. Whether it comes from a consumer or a business, somebody makes the decision to hand you money because they see what you have to offer as valuable. So the first step to creating something worth paying for is to understand the psychology of one person because value is perception. One man's trash is another man's treasure. Some people don't see this video as important. Some people are still watching till right now and they see it as valuable to their lives. That's just how the market works. Many people are going to watch five seconds of this video and be like, Oh, that's stupid. That's a scam amount. And then others are actually going to be changed by it because their mind is in the place where they can receive it. They're going through a problem in their life. They are aware of that problem to the point of being able to receive the information and not write it off. The thing here is is that there are thousands of other people like you. I'm just simply talking about the problems I had in my life and giving out solutions to them. I attract an audience that way. That's what the best brands and businesses in my opinion do. Their businesses are built on experience, not speculation or theory. They're built on what matters. They're built on what do I know? What can I help the most with? What problems have I solved in my life? Why are those important? That's your marketing strategy. Build a product for yourself, market to yourself, right to yourself, attract people like you, because that's who you can help the most. So you know who you're going to target. And step two is creating a solution to a biological, personal, professional, or social problem. In other words, think health, wealth, relationships, happiness, the eternal markets. That's where all real problems are. When we go over the death of the personal brand in the next video, we're going to talk about how influencers just don't solve real problems. They're sickening the masses like lunchlies, prime, really. I like Mr. Beast and all of them in many regards. Cool people. But the way they've monetized, it could just be so much better. You can contribute so much more. I'm not here to judge them. I'm just here to observe and potentially point you in a direction that you may find more enjoyable. Most businesses fail because they try to solve a problem they haven't experienced. They spin up some fancy startup idea in their head and then justify their failure with a dumb statistic like 99% of startups fail. If you pigeonhole yourself into a narrow niche and problem you don't have experience with, there isn't really a path out of that. That's why I recommend becoming the niche. Watch my video. Don't find a niche become the niche because your business is only limited by your ability to develop yourself. Your products evolve as you do because you solve new problems and you get better. You build an audience around your name and don't start to think that this is some kind of business model that I'm pitching towards you. Every business has an audience. It's traffic. You test ideas with content. You turn those best ideas into products. You improve your products or create new ones until it succeeds. You can't really fail if you are the business because you're in full control of your improvement. Now, while I said I don't want to give you a specific business model, I do want to give you what I think is just the best option. The most holistic option that allows you to pivot. It doesn't trap you in one narrow specific topic. It is very meta. It's not starting an agency. It's not becoming a content creator, although that's why this is going to sound like it's going the accessible low cost route so that you can earn cash flow and then invest in other business ventures that you want to. In the age of the internet, that means digital products and services. For people that don't know how to code because coding and building a software or other solutions is a good option. But for those that don't know how to, there's other ways. There's courses, coaching, templates, workshops, live events, etc. You package up your knowledge and you sell it because that's readily accessible and it's valuable. People actually want it. People actually benefit from it. It changes people's lives a lot more than some consumer product that you have in your bathroom. It changes people's lives much more than a fancy bar of soap. People like to shit on courses or education when you're mind and how you operate within reality and the entirety of your life is determined by your education. So contributing in that fashion with digital education products is a very meaningful route to go. It's also a very profitable route to go because it is valuable and the economy favors the profitable. So my favorite type of education product is something like a course curriculum paired with worksheets or resources or projects that you can build inside of Notion or now Cortex because now we have public page sharing. So if you want the notes for this video, you can duplicate them to your cortex with the link in the description. It's pretty cool. The other thing is that you can build these products fast. You're in this testing stage of business. You don't know what you want to sell yet. You don't know if your software idea is going to work. You don't know if a e-commerce business that you're going to invest a ton of money in is going to work. You validate it first with content, tweet does well, then thread does well, then newsletter does well, then YouTube does well, then lead magnet does well, then digital product does well, then you turn that into a software or an e-commerce product or something of that nature because you know it's going to do well and you have the money to build those things now. It's the same story with me where to our writer is now turning into cortex. They're not the same exact thing. One's education, one's a software, but they're very similar and one wouldn't exist without the other. But the question here is what do you build a product around? A problem you've solved in your life. What is the domain of life you've mastered? What do you love to study and learn about? What skills have you acquired that help you live a better life or get a better career? Build a product around that. Teach people everything they need to know to reach the same goals you have. If you need help, just deciding something to start to go in on and to start testing with content on. Research what other people in the topics that you like talking about are doing and you can see exactly how they're making money. It's right in front of you. You're just looking at them as a consumer. So ask yourself, could you create the same thing but better? Now we're taking on a massive task of looking at the entire second brain space and creating something better with cortex. But I just like aiming big. We may fail massively, but as of right now, the users think we stand a chance and the product's pretty good. We have an absolutely incredible team. Now step number three, after you have understood someone's psychology or your own psychology and you've created a solution, you need to build, borrow or buy an audience comprised of the people with the same psychology and problem that you're solving. You have something that people want. Now you need the people side of that equation. Most beginners fall into the trap of building a website, perfecting their product, forming an LLC and the rest but never get around to the most important part. Customers, if you want to skip this process, watch my past video a few videos ago, the fastest way to build a one person business. I go over the minimalist offer or the micro offer. It's just how you get up and running fast. How you don't need to do anything. Well, you need to do a little bit of work. It's how to start selling immediately without really building anything aside from just finding a way to get people to want the knowledge in your head. Now there are three types of distribution built, borrowed and bought. You build distribution on something like social media and an email list. This is something you own and can promote your value to at any time. It is the highest leverage of the bunch. You borrow distribution by networking with other people showing up as a podcast guest and getting thousands of eyes on you writing guest newsletters for people with large lists, posting on forum sites or communities, etc. This is what we're now getting into with marketing cortex because we already have the audience and we're working with larger creators to work up to a much larger launch. But we need to borrow distribution and then eventually we need to buy distribution in order to reach the scale that we want to reach. So you buy distribution with sponsorships and advertisements, podcast sponsorships, newsletter sponsorships, Google ads, Facebook ads, YouTube ads, etc. Now in an optimal world, you would do all of them, but you only have so much time on your hands and so much money to hire other people if you want to do that. And you may not have money to invest in ads at a positive ROI. So in my eyes, the best option for a beginner is to build an audience because it's completely dependent on your skill and how much you invest into learning that and actually doing it on social media. The other thing is that it's free to start. It's accessible. You can post a TikTok tomorrow and get 2 million views and 50,000 followers. That's very rare case, but it's more than possible and people do it every day. I'm not saying that you will. I'm not promising anything. I'm just saying it's possible. The reason I say that is because even if you get a fraction of that, that's enough to make a full time income and I don't want to set false expectations, it's going to take time expected to take time. Now, as I've already said, if you want to learn how to do this, go watch my one person business playlist. If you want more of like a fast track and you're okay with investing in education for your life's work or your business, check out to our writer link in the description for that course. Now, step number four is to systemize the promotion and delivery of the solution to that audience. People will ask me why they aren't making money from their creative work. And 99% of the time, it's because they just don't do the things that make the money. They don't promote themselves or they used to and they stopped. They don't have a schedule or a system. They stopped trying to get customers and then like they knew that subconsciously, but then they need someone to tell them because they just want they want their business to fail. They secretly want it to fail so that they don't have to continue doing the hard thing. So the way out is to just create a repeatable weekly process for promoting your solution or your product or service. So an example for your creator business is to promote your product service lead magnet or newsletter every single day under one post. This can be in the comments of that post or in your story, then send a weekly newsletter and promote your product or service in there and then actively talk to five to 10 people a week in your DMS about your product. That's just one example, one option. You don't need to go that route, but that's a pretty good way to get a lot of eyes on your product or service. You're pretty confident in the fact that you are at least trying to get those things and you can now have data points to improve. If you don't even promote your product, then there is no way to improve. It's better to promote bad than not at all. Now, in terms of delivery of the products, that's relatively simple with digital products. Usually it's just a course platform or coaching service or something like that. If you want to figure out how I like to deliver mine, go watch my video zero to one million as a one-person business. And that goes over Co's law or how to work four hours a day and make really as much money as you want. Now, the last, final, and most important step is to iterate and persist. So to recap on how to make as much money as you want, understand your own mind. So you can mark it to someone that is similar to you, turn the skills, knowledge and interest that benefit your life into an education product, distribute that product to an audience that you build with content and writing, create a weekly system to ensure that your audience sees your product. Now, I say education product there, that's for beginners. Remember, this isn't just a business model I want to give to you. One, with an education product, anyone can start that. That's not like a narrow business model. You can create an education product out of anything, even if you have a physical product. I actually believe that most businesses, especially physical product businesses and software businesses, should have an education product alongside that, not only to boost profit, but to increase the use of what it is that you are selling and create this philosophy and lifestyle around it. And if you can't provide the education, then maybe it's not a product or service that people actually need. But aside from that, that's it. That's what you do. That's all you need to make as much money as you want. And that is not a lie. The final piece of the puzzle is the delicate balance of iteration and persistence. This is where most people fail. There are four points that we talked about. Each of those points provide data. If something isn't working, you need to test something new. Test new marketing angles, use personal experience to market how your product change your own life, engage the response. Test how effective your product is at solving the problem in others' lives, improve it until people can't stop talking about it. Test the ideas, content, and strategies you use to build an audience. If you aren't growing, it's because you haven't done this. Your skill isn't high enough. Test how, when, and how often you promote your product each week until you make the amount of sales you want. This whole business thing doesn't stop when you decide on one marketing angle, one product, one strategy for audience growth, and one way to promote. You can't fail if you have all the right pieces and experiment until they work. Thank you for watching this video. Check out Cortex. We actually have a YouTube channel for it now. If you want to watch the product tour or just tutorials on the features, you can go to the CortexCo at CortexCoCO. YouTube channel or just search Cortex product tour and find it there. Link in the description for everything else. Free second brain course is out now that Cortex is out. So you can join the community and figure that out. Aside from that, thank you again for watching. See you in the next one. Bye.
