Timestamp: 2025-11-18T09:58:43.470174
Title: 10 new GitHub Projects: Open Source AI, Native UI, &amp; Decentralized Inference (React, Rust, Python)
URL: https://youtube.com/watch?v=NeXD-BuAEwM&si=BsnCbEtpBsxeoH-M
Status: success
Duration: 16:27

Description:
好的，这是根据您提供的文本内容提炼的核心思想摘要。

### **核心思想摘要**

#### **一、 概览：本周热门GitHub开源项目盘点**
该内容是对近期在GitHub上备受关注的10个创新开发者工具和AI框架的集中介绍。这些项目覆盖了从AI能力定制、原生应用开发到去中心化计算等多个前沿领域，旨在为开发者提供高效、强大的解决方案。

#### **二、 项目核心功能分类**

1.  **AI与大语言模型（LLM）增强工具**
    *   **Awesome Claude Skills**: 为Claude AI提供预制的、结构化的工作流（Skills），简化和标准化AI任务，减少提示工程。
    *   **MCP Toolbox for Databases**: 一个统一的工具服务器，让生成式AI（Genai）能够安全、高效地直接访问和操作数据库。
    *   **Vibe Voice**: 微软推出的文本转语音（TTS）框架，专注于生成富有表现力的、长篇幅、多说话人（最多4位）的AI语音。
    *   **Lunar Routt**: 一个本地代理工具，用于监控、调试和管理AI编码助手（如Claude Code, OpenAI Codex）的API流量，提供完全的可见性。
    *   **Usage for Claude**: 专为Claude设计的用量追踪工具，帮助开发者监控和审计Token消耗、工具调用和会话成本。

2.  **AI基础设施**
    *   **Parallax**: 一个去中心化的AI推理集群引擎，允许用户利用分布式节点（GPU、本地机器等）构建自己的推理集群，以实现可扩展且经济高效的模型部署。

3.  **原生应用开发**
    *   **Valdi**: Snap公司推出的跨平台原生UI框架，使用TypeScript/TSX编写一次，即可编译成在iOS、Android和macOS上运行的高性能原生应用。
    *   **Raon IDE**: 针对React Native和Expo开发者的VS Code扩展，将编辑器转变为功能完备的IDE，集成了预览、调试、网络监控等功能。

4.  **内容创作与数据分析**
    *   **Stage**: 一款基于浏览器的开源画布编辑器，让用户无需安装重型软件即可创建丰富的视觉设计（如社交媒体横幅）。
    *   **Trend Radar**: 一个实时、多平台的新闻趋势监控与分析工具，聚合来自超过35个平台的热点数据，并利用AI进行分析。

#### **三、 特别介绍：数据服务API**
*   **Supa Data API**: 一个为开发者设计的API服务，专注于将YouTube等平台的视频内容和网页内容轻松转化为结构化的干净数据（JSON或Markdown），为AI应用（尤其是RAG）提供数据支持。

---

### **核心结论**

这份内容精选了10个热门开源GitHub项目，旨在为开发者提供从AI模型增强、应用开发到去中心化计算的全方位前沿解决方案。

---

### **内容总体框架**

该内容采用**“精选列表”**（Curated List）的形式，将10个具有创新性的开源项目按照功能进行分类介绍。其框架始于一个总体概述，引出各类别的具体项目，并对每个项目的**核心功能、技术栈、目标用户和实际价值**进行逐一解析，中间穿插了一个相关的赞助商工具介绍，最后以总结收尾。

---

### **概念关系图 (Mermaid)**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    A["本周热门GitHub项目 (开发者工具 & AI框架)"]

    subgraph "AI与LLM增强 (AI & LLM Enhancement)"
        direction LR
        B["Awesome Claude Skills (Claude工作流)"]
        C["MCP Toolbox (数据库GenAI工具)"]
        D["Vibe Voice (多说话人TTS)"]
        E["Lunar Routt (AI编码代理)"]
        F["Usage for Claude (用量追踪)"]
    end

    subgraph "AI基础设施 (AI Infrastructure)"
        G["Parallax (去中心化推理集群)"]
    end

    subgraph "应用开发 (Application Development)"
        direction LR
        H["Valdi (跨平台原生UI)"]
        I["Raon IDE (React Native IDE)"]
    end

    subgraph "内容与数据工具 (Content & Data Tools)"
        direction LR
        J["Stage (网页画布编辑器)"]
        K["Trend Radar (多平台趋势分析)"]
    end

    L["Supa Data API (赞助商: 数据抓取)"]

    A -- "涵盖领域" --> subgraph "AI与LLM增强 (AI & LLM Enhancement)"
    A -- "涵盖领域" --> subgraph "AI基础设施 (AI Infrastructure)"
    A -- "涵盖领域" --> subgraph "应用开发 (Application Development)"
    A -- "涵盖领域" --> subgraph "内容与数据工具 (Content & Data Tools)"

    L -- "为AI提供数据" --> subgraph "AI与LLM增强 (AI & LLM Enhancement)"

    style A fill:#FFFACD,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style L fill:#E6E6FA,stroke:#9370DB,stroke-width:2px,color:#333
    style B fill:#D1E7DD,stroke:#198754,stroke-width:1px,color:#333
    style C fill:#D1E7DD,stroke:#198754,stroke-width:1px,color:#333
    style D fill:#D1E7DD,stroke:#198754,stroke-width:1px,color:#333
    style E fill:#D1E7DD,stroke:#198754,stroke-width:1px,color:#333
    style F fill:#D1E7DD,stroke:#198754,stroke-width:1px,color:#333
    style G fill:#CFF4FC,stroke:#0DCAF0,stroke-width:1px,color:#333
    style H fill:#CFE2FF,stroke:#0D6EFD,stroke-width:1px,color:#333
    style I fill:#CFE2FF,stroke:#0D6EFD,stroke-width:1px,color:#333
    style J fill:#FFE6CC,stroke:#FD7E14,stroke-width:1px,color:#333
    style K fill:#FFE6CC,stroke:#FD7E14,stroke-width:1px,color:#333
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
Get ready for an energetic rundown of, Get ready for an energetic rundown of, the most innovative developer tools and, the most innovative developer tools and, the most innovative developer tools and, AI frameworks heating up GitHub right, AI frameworks heating up GitHub right, AI frameworks heating up GitHub right, now. We are covering top trending and, now. We are covering top trending and, now. We are covering top trending and, open-source GitHub projects this week., open-source GitHub projects this week., open-source GitHub projects this week., Part one showcasing 10 projects that are, Part one showcasing 10 projects that are, Part one showcasing 10 projects that are, setting new standards for AI, setting new standards for AI, setting new standards for AI, customization, native application, customization, native application, customization, native application, development, and decentralized compute., development, and decentralized compute., development, and decentralized compute., You will discover cuttingedge solutions, You will discover cuttingedge solutions, You will discover cuttingedge solutions, for building your own AI inference, for building your own AI inference, for building your own AI inference, clusters, creating high performance, clusters, creating high performance, clusters, creating high performance, cross-platform mobile apps, and giving, cross-platform mobile apps, and giving, cross-platform mobile apps, and giving, large language models direct secure, large language models direct secure, large language models direct secure, database access., database access., database access., &gt;&gt; Welcome back to Manu AGI tutorials. Here, &gt;&gt; Welcome back to Manu AGI tutorials. Here, &gt;&gt; Welcome back to Manu AGI tutorials. Here, we explore the exciting world of AI, we explore the exciting world of AI, we explore the exciting world of AI, latest AI tools for you. So don't forget, latest AI tools for you. So don't forget, latest AI tools for you. So don't forget, to hit that subscribe button and the, to hit that subscribe button and the, to hit that subscribe button and the, notification bell so you don't miss out, notification bell so you don't miss out, notification bell so you don't miss out, on the latest AI insights. So let's, on the latest AI insights. So let's, on the latest AI insights. So let's, start today's video. Project number one, start today's video. Project number one, start today's video. Project number one, Awesome Claude Skills, curated workflows, Awesome Claude Skills, curated workflows, Awesome Claude Skills, curated workflows, for claude AI. Let's dive into Awesome, for claude AI. Let's dive into Awesome, for claude AI. Let's dive into Awesome, Claude Skills, a free and open-source, Claude Skills, a free and open-source, Claude Skills, a free and open-source, repository from Composio HQ that, repository from Composio HQ that, repository from Composio HQ that, collects a rich catalog of readymade, collects a rich catalog of readymade, collects a rich catalog of readymade, skills or workflows for the Claude, skills or workflows for the Claude, skills or workflows for the Claude, family, claude.AI, Claude Code, and the, family, claude.AI, Claude Code, and the, family, claude.AI, Claude Code, and the, Claude API. It enables users to quickly, Claude API. It enables users to quickly, Claude API. It enables users to quickly, plug in structured task definitions, for, plug in structured task definitions, for, plug in structured task definitions, for, example, document processing, code, example, document processing, code, example, document processing, code, tools, brainstorming, lead research, tools, brainstorming, lead research, tools, brainstorming, lead research, image enhancement. So Claude can perform, image enhancement. So Claude can perform, image enhancement. So Claude can perform, specialized actions instead of generic, specialized actions instead of generic, specialized actions instead of generic, chats. The stack is built around YAML, chats. The stack is built around YAML, chats. The stack is built around YAML, front matter skill folders that contain, front matter skill folders that contain, front matter skill folders that contain, skill.m instructions and optional, skill.m instructions and optional, skill.m instructions and optional, scripts/ templates. For instance, it, scripts/ templates. For instance, it, scripts/ templates. For instance, it, covers skills like change log generator, covers skills like change log generator, covers skills like change log generator, making release notes from git commits, making release notes from git commits, making release notes from git commits, and MCP builder, helping build model, and MCP builder, helping build model, and MCP builder, helping build model, context protocol servers, among others., context protocol servers, among others., context protocol servers, among others., The repo is licensed under Apache 2.0., The repo is licensed under Apache 2.0., The repo is licensed under Apache 2.0., It's aimed at developers, AI, It's aimed at developers, AI, It's aimed at developers, AI, practitioners, and productivity, practitioners, and productivity, practitioners, and productivity, tinkerers who want to extend Claude's, tinkerers who want to extend Claude's, tinkerers who want to extend Claude's, capabilities and standardize reusable, capabilities and standardize reusable, capabilities and standardize reusable, workflows across tools. The practical, workflows across tools. The practical, workflows across tools. The practical, value lies in reducing prompt, value lies in reducing prompt, value lies in reducing prompt, engineering effort, enabling repeatable, engineering effort, enabling repeatable, engineering effort, enabling repeatable, automation, and increasing ownership of, automation, and increasing ownership of, automation, and increasing ownership of, AI behavior. Demo usage is as simple as, AI behavior. Demo usage is as simple as, AI behavior. Demo usage is as simple as, installing a skill folder, eg mcp, installing a skill folder, eg mcp, installing a skill folder, eg mcp, gladto, lithombert, dqa2, demo have, gladto, lithombert, dqa2, demo have, gladto, lithombert, dqa2, demo have, claude toe code, skills, then copy the, claude toe code, skills, then copy the, claude toe code, skills, then copy the, directory, then loading it in claude, directory, then loading it in claude, directory, then loading it in claude, code., code., code., &gt;&gt; Before we move to next project, let me, &gt;&gt; Before we move to next project, let me, &gt;&gt; Before we move to next project, let me, introduce you to super data web and, introduce you to super data web and, introduce you to super data web and, YouTube to text API for makers. As you, YouTube to text API for makers. As you, YouTube to text API for makers. As you, know, building modern software, know, building modern software, know, building modern software, especially with AI agents or chat bots, especially with AI agents or chat bots, especially with AI agents or chat bots, requires massive amounts of clean data., requires massive amounts of clean data., requires massive amounts of clean data., We were facing a constant hassle trying, We were facing a constant hassle trying, We were facing a constant hassle trying, to manage video transcription and, to manage video transcription and, to manage video transcription and, reliable data scraping. We needed a way, reliable data scraping. We needed a way, reliable data scraping. We needed a way, to turn videos and websites into, to turn videos and websites into, to turn videos and websites into, structured data effortlessly. Supata, structured data effortlessly. Supata, structured data effortlessly. Supata, immediately solved this acting as the, immediately solved this acting as the, immediately solved this acting as the, bridge that helps us build better, bridge that helps us build better, bridge that helps us build better, software and AI products faster. It's, software and AI products faster. It's, software and AI products faster. It's, built for developers by developers and, built for developers by developers and, built for developers by developers and, avoids the unnecessary complexity we, avoids the unnecessary complexity we, avoids the unnecessary complexity we, often see in APIs. The core of what, often see in APIs. The core of what, often see in APIs. The core of what, we're using involves two powerful, we're using involves two powerful, we're using involves two powerful, components. First, the video transcript, components. First, the video transcript, components. First, the video transcript, API. This is fantastic. We can extract, API. This is fantastic. We can extract, API. This is fantastic. We can extract, both autogenerated and manual captions, both autogenerated and manual captions, both autogenerated and manual captions, from YouTube, Tik Tok, Instagram X, and, from YouTube, Tik Tok, Instagram X, and, from YouTube, Tik Tok, Instagram X, and, other files. It uses a simple API, other files. It uses a simple API, other files. It uses a simple API, integration and returns clean JSON, integration and returns clean JSON, integration and returns clean JSON, output. Crucially for us, it promises no, output. Crucially for us, it promises no, output. Crucially for us, it promises no, proxies, rate limits, or roadblocks., proxies, rate limits, or roadblocks., proxies, rate limits, or roadblocks., Second, the web scraping API. This gives, Second, the web scraping API. This gives, Second, the web scraping API. This gives, us clean, structured markdown content., us clean, structured markdown content., us clean, structured markdown content., This scraped content is perfect for, This scraped content is perfect for, This scraped content is perfect for, training our AI chat bots. It handles, training our AI chat bots. It handles, training our AI chat bots. It handles, bypassing captures and rate limits using, bypassing captures and rate limits using, bypassing captures and rate limits using, their scalable infrastructure. It's, their scalable infrastructure. It's, their scalable infrastructure. It's, truly fast, plug-andplay, scalable, and, truly fast, plug-andplay, scalable, and, truly fast, plug-andplay, scalable, and, reliable. We found that the data is even, reliable. We found that the data is even, reliable. We found that the data is even, fetched in real time, ensuring we always, fetched in real time, ensuring we always, fetched in real time, ensuring we always, get the most current data whenever we, get the most current data whenever we, get the most current data whenever we, make a request. So, where does Supa data, make a request. So, where does Supa data, make a request. So, where does Supa data, fit into our project? We are primarily, fit into our project? We are primarily, fit into our project? We are primarily, using it for our AI backbone. This API, using it for our AI backbone. This API, using it for our AI backbone. This API, is essential for feeding our AI with, is essential for feeding our AI with, is essential for feeding our AI with, quality data. This supports our efforts, quality data. This supports our efforts, quality data. This supports our efforts, in developing chat bots and is critical, in developing chat bots and is critical, in developing chat bots and is critical, for retrieval augmented generation rag., for retrieval augmented generation rag., for retrieval augmented generation rag., Look how simple it is to get started., Look how simple it is to get started., Look how simple it is to get started., You can call the API using a standard, You can call the API using a standard, You can call the API using a standard, curl command or Python JavaScript SDKs, curl command or Python JavaScript SDKs, curl command or Python JavaScript SDKs, if you prefer, if you prefer, if you prefer, or even no code tools like Zapier or, or even no code tools like Zapier or, or even no code tools like Zapier or, Make., Make., Make., You send the URL and it instantly, You send the URL and it instantly, You send the URL and it instantly, returns the clean content., returns the clean content., returns the clean content., The documentation is great and it's well, The documentation is great and it's well, The documentation is great and it's well, documented. As one of the makers they, documented. As one of the makers they, documented. As one of the makers they, trust put it, it's an API that just, trust put it, it's an API that just, trust put it, it's an API that just, works without the BS and has saved me, works without the BS and has saved me, works without the BS and has saved me, weeks of development time. If you are a, weeks of development time. If you are a, weeks of development time. If you are a, fellow maker or developer who needs to, fellow maker or developer who needs to, fellow maker or developer who needs to, turn video or web content into, turn video or web content into, turn video or web content into, structured data, you absolutely need to, structured data, you absolutely need to, structured data, you absolutely need to, check out Super Data. They have simple, check out Super Data. They have simple, check out Super Data. They have simple, pricing that scales to zero, meaning you, pricing that scales to zero, meaning you, pricing that scales to zero, meaning you, can get 100 free requests right off the, can get 100 free requests right off the, can get 100 free requests right off the, bat. You can get your API key in 30, bat. You can get your API key in 30, bat. You can get your API key in 30, seconds and no credit card is required, seconds and no credit card is required, seconds and no credit card is required, to start building now. The link is in, to start building now. The link is in, to start building now. The link is in, the description. Go check out why 7,000, the description. Go check out why 7,000, the description. Go check out why 7,000, plus makers are already using this in, plus makers are already using this in, plus makers are already using this in, production. Now, let's get back to the, production. Now, let's get back to the, production. Now, let's get back to the, rest of the project updates., rest of the project updates., rest of the project updates., &gt;&gt; Project number two, MCP Toolbox for, &gt;&gt; Project number two, MCP Toolbox for, &gt;&gt; Project number two, MCP Toolbox for, databases. Unified tool server for Genai, databases. Unified tool server for Genai, databases. Unified tool server for Genai, plus DB access. Let's dive into MCP, plus DB access. Let's dive into MCP, plus DB access. Let's dive into MCP, toolbox for databases. A free and, toolbox for databases. A free and, toolbox for databases. A free and, open-source cross-platform server, open-source cross-platform server, open-source cross-platform server, created by Google APIs that lets you, created by Google APIs that lets you, created by Google APIs that lets you, build Genai agents and tools which talk, build Genai agents and tools which talk, build Genai agents and tools which talk, directly to your databases in a secure, directly to your databases in a secure, directly to your databases in a secure, performant, and managed way. It enables, performant, and managed way. It enables, performant, and managed way. It enables, you to define tools for example SQL, you to define tools for example SQL, you to define tools for example SQL, query table creation index management, query table creation index management, query table creation index management, via a tools YAML run the server as a, via a tools YAML run the server as a, via a tools YAML run the server as a, binary container or from source then, binary container or from source then, binary container or from source then, load those tools into LLM orchestration, load those tools into LLM orchestration, load those tools into LLM orchestration, frameworks eg langchain llama index, frameworks eg langchain llama index, frameworks eg langchain llama index, through SDKs in go javascript/typescript, through SDKs in go javascript/typescript, through SDKs in go javascript/typescript, or python the stack is written in go yam, or python the stack is written in go yam, or python the stack is written in go yam, 97% of code and supports connection, 97% of code and supports connection, 97% of code and supports connection, pooling authentication observability, pooling authentication observability, pooling authentication observability, with open telemetry and is licensed, with open telemetry and is licensed, with open telemetry and is licensed, under Apache 2.0. It's now at version, under Apache 2.0. It's now at version, under Apache 2.0. It's now at version, 0.2.0, 0.2.0, 0.2.0, released no 14 2025 and has over 11K, released no 14 2025 and has over 11K, released no 14 2025 and has over 11K, stars on GitHub indicating active, stars on GitHub indicating active, stars on GitHub indicating active, interest. It's designed for developers, interest. It's designed for developers, interest. It's designed for developers, AI engineers, and data teams who want to, AI engineers, and data teams who want to, AI engineers, and data teams who want to, give their agents real world data, give their agents real world data, give their agents real world data, awareness and actionable database access, awareness and actionable database access, awareness and actionable database access, so they gain higher productivity, fewer, so they gain higher productivity, fewer, so they gain higher productivity, fewer, boilerplate steps, and more secure, boilerplate steps, and more secure, boilerplate steps, and more secure, setup. There is one limitation. Because, setup. There is one limitation. Because, setup. There is one limitation. Because, it's pre 1.0, it warns about potential, it's pre 1.0, it warns about potential, it's pre 1.0, it warns about potential, breaking changes. Project number three, breaking changes. Project number three, breaking changes. Project number three, Vibe Voice. Expressive long- form, Vibe Voice. Expressive long- form, Vibe Voice. Expressive long- form, multis-speaker AI voices. Let's dive, multis-speaker AI voices. Let's dive, multis-speaker AI voices. Let's dive, into Vibe Voice, an open-source, into Vibe Voice, an open-source, into Vibe Voice, an open-source, textto-spech framework by Microsoft, textto-spech framework by Microsoft, textto-spech framework by Microsoft, tailored for generating expressive long-, tailored for generating expressive long-, tailored for generating expressive long-, form multis-speaker audio from text. It, form multis-speaker audio from text. It, form multis-speaker audio from text. It, enables you to produce podcast style, enables you to produce podcast style, enables you to produce podcast style, voice output with up to four distinct, voice output with up to four distinct, voice output with up to four distinct, speakers and durations up to around 90, speakers and durations up to around 90, speakers and durations up to around 90, minutes, which is well beyond typical, minutes, which is well beyond typical, minutes, which is well beyond typical, TTS systems. The stack uses continuous, TTS systems. The stack uses continuous, TTS systems. The stack uses continuous, acoustic and semantic tokenizers, acoustic and semantic tokenizers, acoustic and semantic tokenizers, operating at an ultra- low 7.5 herz, operating at an ultra- low 7.5 herz, operating at an ultra- low 7.5 herz, frame rate, a next token diffusion head, frame rate, a next token diffusion head, frame rate, a next token diffusion head, and an LLM backbone QN 2.51.5B, and an LLM backbone QN 2.51.5B, and an LLM backbone QN 2.51.5B, to manage dialogue flow and voice, to manage dialogue flow and voice, to manage dialogue flow and voice, fidelity. It supports English and, fidelity. It supports English and, fidelity. It supports English and, Chinese offers up to 64k token and, Chinese offers up to 64k token and, Chinese offers up to 64k token and, context length in its 1.5B parameter, context length in its 1.5B parameter, context length in its 1.5B parameter, version and is licensed under MIT. Vibe, version and is licensed under MIT. Vibe, version and is licensed under MIT. Vibe, voice is designed for developers, audio, voice is designed for developers, audio, voice is designed for developers, audio, creators, researchers who need, creators, researchers who need, creators, researchers who need, highquality voice generation, highquality voice generation, highquality voice generation, multi-person dialogues, or podcast style, multi-person dialogues, or podcast style, multi-person dialogues, or podcast style, narration without commercial licensing, narration without commercial licensing, narration without commercial licensing, barriers. While it scales visual, barriers. While it scales visual, barriers. While it scales visual, workflows and voice synthesis, it has, workflows and voice synthesis, it has, workflows and voice synthesis, it has, limitations. Overlapping speech is not, limitations. Overlapping speech is not, limitations. Overlapping speech is not, yet modeled and its use in real world, yet modeled and its use in real world, yet modeled and its use in real world, commercial applications is not, commercial applications is not, commercial applications is not, recommended in the repo. Project number, recommended in the repo. Project number, recommended in the repo. Project number, four, Parallax, decentralized AI, four, Parallax, decentralized AI, four, Parallax, decentralized AI, inference cluster engine. Let's dive, inference cluster engine. Let's dive, inference cluster engine. Let's dive, into Parallax, a free and open-source, into Parallax, a free and open-source, into Parallax, a free and open-source, cross-platform framework by Gradient HQ, cross-platform framework by Gradient HQ, cross-platform framework by Gradient HQ, that enables you to build your own AI, that enables you to build your own AI, that enables you to build your own AI, cluster for model inference using, cluster for model inference using, cluster for model inference using, distributed nodes anywhere. Parallax, distributed nodes anywhere. Parallax, distributed nodes anywhere. Parallax, tackles the growing need for scalable, tackles the growing need for scalable, tackles the growing need for scalable, costefficient inference of large, costefficient inference of large, costefficient inference of large, language models by letting you run, language models by letting you run, language models by letting you run, workloads across heterogeneous devices, workloads across heterogeneous devices, workloads across heterogeneous devices, GPUs, local machines, remote nodes with, GPUs, local machines, remote nodes with, GPUs, local machines, remote nodes with, features like pipeline model sharding, features like pipeline model sharding, features like pipeline model sharding, dynamic request scheduling, and, dynamic request scheduling, and, dynamic request scheduling, and, continuous batching. The project uses, continuous batching. The project uses, continuous batching. The project uses, Python primarily, implements a, Python primarily, implements a, Python primarily, implements a, peer-to-peer backend via the Latica, peer-to-peer backend via the Latica, peer-to-peer backend via the Latica, stack, supports popular open-source, stack, supports popular open-source, stack, supports popular open-source, models such as Quen 3235b, models such as Quen 3235b, models such as Quen 3235b, DeepSeek, Miniax, and GLM 4.6 under the, DeepSeek, Miniax, and GLM 4.6 under the, DeepSeek, Miniax, and GLM 4.6 under the, Apache 2.0 license. Release VM.1.0, Nav, Apache 2.0 license. Release VM.1.0, Nav, Apache 2.0 license. Release VM.1.0, Nav, 11 2025 added diverse model support and, 11 2025 added diverse model support and, 11 2025 added diverse model support and, relay server connectivity. developers, relay server connectivity. developers, relay server connectivity. developers, researchers, and infrastructure, researchers, and infrastructure, researchers, and infrastructure, engineers benefit from practical value, engineers benefit from practical value, engineers benefit from practical value, lower latency inference, flexible, lower latency inference, flexible, lower latency inference, flexible, deployment on existing hardware, and, deployment on existing hardware, and, deployment on existing hardware, and, better AI sovereignty limitation because, better AI sovereignty limitation because, better AI sovereignty limitation because, it is early stage pre 1.0 and in a, it is early stage pre 1.0 and in a, it is early stage pre 1.0 and in a, decentralized environment, stability and, decentralized environment, stability and, decentralized environment, stability and, production hardness may require caution., production hardness may require caution., production hardness may require caution., Project number five, Lunar Routt, Hyperf, Project number five, Lunar Routt, Hyperf, Project number five, Lunar Routt, Hyperf, local proxy for AI coding assistance., local proxy for AI coding assistance., local proxy for AI coding assistance., Let's dive into Lunar Routt, a free and, Let's dive into Lunar Routt, a free and, Let's dive into Lunar Routt, a free and, open-source local proxy tool written in, open-source local proxy tool written in, open-source local proxy tool written in, Rust that works seamlessly with APIs, Rust that works seamlessly with APIs, Rust that works seamlessly with APIs, like Claude Code, OpenAI Codeex CLI, and, like Claude Code, OpenAI Codeex CLI, and, like Claude Code, OpenAI Codeex CLI, and, other OpenAI anthropic endpoints. It, other OpenAI anthropic endpoints. It, other OpenAI anthropic endpoints. It, runs as a lightweight server on your, runs as a lightweight server on your, runs as a lightweight server on your, machine and routes your AI coding, machine and routes your AI coding, machine and routes your AI coding, assistant traffic, allowing you to, assistant traffic, allowing you to, assistant traffic, allowing you to, monitor every token, tool invocation, monitor every token, tool invocation, monitor every token, tool invocation, and conversation in real time via a web, and conversation in real time via a web, and conversation in real time via a web, UI with about 0.1.2, UI with about 0.1.2, UI with about 0.1.2, mess latency overhead. Key features, mess latency overhead. Key features, mess latency overhead. Key features, include dual dialect support, open AI, include dual dialect support, open AI, include dual dialect support, open AI, plus anthropic APIs, session recording, plus anthropic APIs, session recording, plus anthropic APIs, session recording, to see quiet and JSONL, PII redaction, to see quiet and JSONL, PII redaction, to see quiet and JSONL, PII redaction, for privacy, and in built-in metrics/, for privacy, and in built-in metrics/, for privacy, and in built-in metrics/, Prometheus support. It's licensed under, Prometheus support. It's licensed under, Prometheus support. It's licensed under, Apache 2.0. The tool is perfect for, Apache 2.0. The tool is perfect for, Apache 2.0. The tool is perfect for, developers who use AI coding assistance, developers who use AI coding assistance, developers who use AI coding assistance, and want full visibility into what's, and want full visibility into what's, and want full visibility into what's, happening behind the scenes, enabling, happening behind the scenes, enabling, happening behind the scenes, enabling, debugging, usage tracking, cost control, debugging, usage tracking, cost control, debugging, usage tracking, cost control, and compliance. According to the repo, and compliance. According to the repo, and compliance. According to the repo, one command avail and lunar route server, one command avail and lunar route server, one command avail and lunar route server, end handles server start and environment, end handles server start and environment, end handles server start and environment, configuration. Performance benchmarks, configuration. Performance benchmarks, configuration. Performance benchmarks, show proxy latency under 0.5 misbroge, show proxy latency under 0.5 misbroge, show proxy latency under 0.5 misbroge, with pass through mode. Project number, with pass through mode. Project number, with pass through mode. Project number, six, Valdi cross-platform native UI, six, Valdi cross-platform native UI, six, Valdi cross-platform native UI, framework by Snap. Let's dive into, framework by Snap. Let's dive into, framework by Snap. Let's dive into, Valdi, a free and open-source UI, Valdi, a free and open-source UI, Valdi, a free and open-source UI, framework from Snap Inc. designed for, framework from Snap Inc. designed for, framework from Snap Inc. designed for, building higherformance cross-platform, building higherformance cross-platform, building higherformance cross-platform, applications with native views on iOS, applications with native views on iOS, applications with native views on iOS, Android, and Mac OS. It allows, Android, and Mac OS. It allows, Android, and Mac OS. It allows, developers to write declarative, developers to write declarative, developers to write declarative, TypeScript/TSX, TypeScript/TSX, TypeScript/TSX, once and compile directly to fully, once and compile directly to fully, once and compile directly to fully, native UI components, skipping web views, native UI components, skipping web views, native UI components, skipping web views, and JS bridges. So you get the velocity, and JS bridges. So you get the velocity, and JS bridges. So you get the velocity, of web style development with the speed, of web style development with the speed, of web style development with the speed, and polish of native apps. According to, and polish of native apps. According to, and polish of native apps. According to, the docs, Valdi has powered production, the docs, Valdi has powered production, the docs, Valdi has powered production, features at Snap for over 8 years, features at Snap for over 8 years, features at Snap for over 8 years, meaning it is mature beneath the beta, meaning it is mature beneath the beta, meaning it is mature beneath the beta, label. Some standout details. It, label. Some standout details. It, label. Some standout details. It, supports AOT/AOT, supports AOT/AOT, supports AOT/AOT, plus Jet modes. Integrates with the, plus Jet modes. Integrates with the, plus Jet modes. Integrates with the, HermesJS engine and native bindings via, HermesJS engine and native bindings via, HermesJS engine and native bindings via, generated code. Uses a view model, generated code. Uses a view model, generated code. Uses a view model, staller state system akin to MVVM and is, staller state system akin to MVVM and is, staller state system akin to MVVM and is, licensed under Apache 2.0. It is aimed, licensed under Apache 2.0. It is aimed, licensed under Apache 2.0. It is aimed, at mobile/estop developers who want one, at mobile/estop developers who want one, at mobile/estop developers who want one, codebase yet real native performance and, codebase yet real native performance and, codebase yet real native performance and, user experience giving them portability, user experience giving them portability, user experience giving them portability, faster iteration, and deeper control, faster iteration, and deeper control, faster iteration, and deeper control, over UI. The demo path involves, over UI. The demo path involves, over UI. The demo path involves, installing via npm writing tsx, installing via npm writing tsx, installing via npm writing tsx, components eg class extends stateful, components eg class extends stateful, components eg class extends stateful, component then building for each target, component then building for each target, component then building for each target, with the valdi tool chain performance, with the valdi tool chain performance, with the valdi tool chain performance, benchmarks claim very low overhead, benchmarks claim very low overhead, benchmarks claim very low overhead, compared to handwritten native, compared to handwritten native, compared to handwritten native, limitation the community ecosystem, limitation the community ecosystem, limitation the community ecosystem, components library is coming soon so it, components library is coming soon so it, components library is coming soon so it, may lack thirdparty widgets project, may lack thirdparty widgets project, may lack thirdparty widgets project, number seven raon IDE advanced react, number seven raon IDE advanced react, number seven raon IDE advanced react, native IDE extension for VS code/cursor, native IDE extension for VS code/cursor, native IDE extension for VS code/cursor, let's dive into Raidon IDE, a versatile, let's dive into Raidon IDE, a versatile, let's dive into Raidon IDE, a versatile, VS Code and cursor extension built by, VS Code and cursor extension built by, VS Code and cursor extension built by, Software Mansion designed to turn your, Software Mansion designed to turn your, Software Mansion designed to turn your, editor into a fully featured IDE for, editor into a fully featured IDE for, editor into a fully featured IDE for, building React Native and Expo apps. It, building React Native and Expo apps. It, building React Native and Expo apps. It, allows developers to preview apps, allows developers to preview apps, allows developers to preview apps, directly inside the editor, inspect, directly inside the editor, inspect, directly inside the editor, inspect, component hierarchies, debug with, component hierarchies, debug with, component hierarchies, debug with, breakpoints, monitor network traffic, breakpoints, monitor network traffic, breakpoints, monitor network traffic, and even record screen replays, all, and even record screen replays, all, and even record screen replays, all, without leaving the coding environment., without leaving the coding environment., without leaving the coding environment., The core stack uses, The core stack uses, The core stack uses, TypeScript/JavaScript, TypeScript/JavaScript, TypeScript/JavaScript, for the extension and front end and VS, for the extension and front end and VS, for the extension and front end and VS, Code APIs supported by a separate, Code APIs supported by a separate, Code APIs supported by a separate, simulator server binary for iOS, simulator server binary for iOS, simulator server binary for iOS, simulator and Android emulator, simulator and Android emulator, simulator and Android emulator, connectivity. The REI shows version, connectivity. The REI shows version, connectivity. The REI shows version, v1.13.0, v1.13.0, v1.13.0, released n 2025 and states thousands of, released n 2025 and states thousands of, released n 2025 and states thousands of, engineers are using it. It's aimed at, engineers are using it. It's aimed at, engineers are using it. It's aimed at, mobile app developers who want faster, mobile app developers who want faster, mobile app developers who want faster, iteration, better debugging, and deeper, iteration, better debugging, and deeper, iteration, better debugging, and deeper, insight into their React Native code, insight into their React Native code, insight into their React Native code, giving them practical value by reducing, giving them practical value by reducing, giving them practical value by reducing, context switching and improving feedback, context switching and improving feedback, context switching and improving feedback, loops. One limitation, Windows support, loops. One limitation, Windows support, loops. One limitation, Windows support, appears incomplete or inconsistent, appears incomplete or inconsistent, appears incomplete or inconsistent, issues filed about Windows 64-bit, issues filed about Windows 64-bit, issues filed about Windows 64-bit, support. Project number eight, Stage, support. Project number eight, Stage, support. Project number eight, Stage, web-based canvas editor for stunning, web-based canvas editor for stunning, web-based canvas editor for stunning, designs. Let's dive into Stage, a free, designs. Let's dive into Stage, a free, designs. Let's dive into Stage, a free, open-source browser-based canvas editor, open-source browser-based canvas editor, open-source browser-based canvas editor, that empowers creators to build rich, that empowers creators to build rich, that empowers creators to build rich, visual designs without heavy software., visual designs without heavy software., visual designs without heavy software., It works entirely in browser by default, It works entirely in browser by default, It works entirely in browser by default, although optional back-end services, although optional back-end services, although optional back-end services, exist. So, you upload images, layer, exist. So, you upload images, layer, exist. So, you upload images, layer, text, choose backgrounds, apply shadows, text, choose backgrounds, apply shadows, text, choose backgrounds, apply shadows, or 3D perspective, pick aspect ratios, or 3D perspective, pick aspect ratios, or 3D perspective, pick aspect ratios, Instagram banner, etc., and export, Instagram banner, etc., and export, Instagram banner, etc., and export, highquality graphics, all fast and, highquality graphics, all fast and, highquality graphics, all fast and, intuitive. The tech stack uses Nex.js, intuitive. The tech stack uses Nex.js, intuitive. The tech stack uses Nex.js, JS16 and React 19 with TypeScript, JS16 and React 19 with TypeScript, JS16 and React 19 with TypeScript, rendering via Conva Plush HTML 2 canvas, rendering via Conva Plush HTML 2 canvas, rendering via Conva Plush HTML 2 canvas, state management by Zustand styled with, state management by Zustand styled with, state management by Zustand styled with, Tailwind CSS4 and UI primitives from, Tailwind CSS4 and UI primitives from, Tailwind CSS4 and UI primitives from, Radics UI. The license is Apache 2.0., Radics UI. The license is Apache 2.0., Radics UI. The license is Apache 2.0., The editor is built for designers, The editor is built for designers, The editor is built for designers, content creators, marketers, and anyone, content creators, marketers, and anyone, content creators, marketers, and anyone, wanting agile high-res visual output, wanting agile high-res visual output, wanting agile high-res visual output, offering full control, portability in, offering full control, portability in, offering full control, portability in, browser, and instant preview. According, browser, and instant preview. According, browser, and instant preview. According, to the readme, export runs fully, to the readme, export runs fully, to the readme, export runs fully, clientside for all core features. so you, clientside for all core features. so you, clientside for all core features. so you, retain ownership and privacy. Notable, retain ownership and privacy. Notable, retain ownership and privacy. Notable, limitations include potential slowness, limitations include potential slowness, limitations include potential slowness, on very highresolution canvases and, on very highresolution canvases and, on very highresolution canvases and, screenshot via URL capture may time out, screenshot via URL capture may time out, screenshot via URL capture may time out, for slow websites. Limitation export may, for slow websites. Limitation export may, for slow websites. Limitation export may, take a few seconds for highresolution, take a few seconds for highresolution, take a few seconds for highresolution, images. Screenshot capture may time out., images. Screenshot capture may time out., images. Screenshot capture may time out., Project number nine, Trend Radar., Project number nine, Trend Radar., Project number nine, Trend Radar., Realtime multiplatform news trend, Realtime multiplatform news trend, Realtime multiplatform news trend, analyzer. Let's dive into Trend Radar, a, analyzer. Let's dive into Trend Radar, a, analyzer. Let's dive into Trend Radar, a, free and open-source news trend, free and open-source news trend, free and open-source news trend, monitoring and AI analysis tool built in, monitoring and AI analysis tool built in, monitoring and AI analysis tool built in, Python and designed to run locally or, Python and designed to run locally or, Python and designed to run locally or, via Docker. It aggregates hot topic data, via Docker. It aggregates hot topic data, via Docker. It aggregates hot topic data, from over 35 platforms, eg Tik Tok, from over 35 platforms, eg Tik Tok, from over 35 platforms, eg Tik Tok, Zahoo, billability, finance news sites, Zahoo, billability, finance news sites, Zahoo, billability, finance news sites, so you can follow emerging stories, so you can follow emerging stories, so you can follow emerging stories, without being buried in noise. It, without being buried in noise. It, without being buried in noise. It, supports keyword filters, ranking by, supports keyword filters, ranking by, supports keyword filters, ranking by, frequency and persistence and integrates, frequency and persistence and integrates, frequency and persistence and integrates, AI tools via the model context protocol, AI tools via the model context protocol, AI tools via the model context protocol, MCP to provide 13 type analyses, trend, MCP to provide 13 type analyses, trend, MCP to provide 13 type analyses, trend, evolution, sentiment, similar news, evolution, sentiment, similar news, evolution, sentiment, similar news, search through natural language queries., search through natural language queries., search through natural language queries., In practice, you set frequency words, In practice, you set frequency words, In practice, you set frequency words, choose a push mode, daily, current, choose a push mode, daily, current, choose a push mode, daily, current, incremental, and let trend radar crawl, incremental, and let trend radar crawl, incremental, and let trend radar crawl, filter, and notify you via enterprise, filter, and notify you via enterprise, filter, and notify you via enterprise, wechathat, fauhu, telegram, email, etc., wechathat, fauhu, telegram, email, etc., wechathat, fauhu, telegram, email, etc., It's built for researchers, content, It's built for researchers, content, It's built for researchers, content, creators, marketers, and PR teams who, creators, marketers, and PR teams who, creators, marketers, and PR teams who, want early insight into which topics are, want early insight into which topics are, want early insight into which topics are, spiking or evolving across media. The, spiking or evolving across media. The, spiking or evolving across media. The, codebase uses Python, HTML, Docker, codebase uses Python, HTML, Docker, codebase uses Python, HTML, Docker, support, and is licensed under GPL 3.0., support, and is licensed under GPL 3.0., support, and is licensed under GPL 3.0., One limitation is that it currently, One limitation is that it currently, One limitation is that it currently, focuses mainly on Chinese language, focuses mainly on Chinese language, focuses mainly on Chinese language, platforms and may require adaptation for, platforms and may require adaptation for, platforms and may require adaptation for, other languages/ regions. Project number, other languages/ regions. Project number, other languages/ regions. Project number, 10, usage for Claude, prompt usage, 10, usage for Claude, prompt usage, 10, usage for Claude, prompt usage, tracker for Claude agents. Let's dive, tracker for Claude agents. Let's dive, tracker for Claude agents. Let's dive, into usage for Claude, a free and, into usage for Claude, a free and, into usage for Claude, a free and, open-source tool designed to help you, open-source tool designed to help you, open-source tool designed to help you, monitor, visualize, and audit usage of, monitor, visualize, and audit usage of, monitor, visualize, and audit usage of, Claude code or other cloud-based, Claude code or other cloud-based, Claude code or other cloud-based, workflows. It tracks how many tokens, workflows. It tracks how many tokens, workflows. It tracks how many tokens, your agents consume, which prompts, your agents consume, which prompts, your agents consume, which prompts, invoke heavy tool use and logs session, invoke heavy tool use and logs session, invoke heavy tool use and logs session, metadata for cost control and, metadata for cost control and, metadata for cost control and, optimization, making it relevant now as, optimization, making it relevant now as, optimization, making it relevant now as, organizations deploy AI agents at scale, organizations deploy AI agents at scale, organizations deploy AI agents at scale, and need transparency, accountability, and need transparency, accountability, and need transparency, accountability, and budget control. Built in Python with, and budget control. Built in Python with, and budget control. Built in Python with, a SQLite backend plus a lightweight web, a SQLite backend plus a lightweight web, a SQLite backend plus a lightweight web, UI, it supports local deployment, JSNL, UI, it supports local deployment, JSNL, UI, it supports local deployment, JSNL, export, and integrates easily with your, export, and integrates easily with your, export, and integrates easily with your, existing cloud code logs. It's targeted, existing cloud code logs. It's targeted, existing cloud code logs. It's targeted, at AI tool engineers, developer teams, at AI tool engineers, developer teams, at AI tool engineers, developer teams, and operations groups who want practical, and operations groups who want practical, and operations groups who want practical, metrics, eg token burn per session, tool, metrics, eg token burn per session, tool, metrics, eg token burn per session, tool, call count, ownership of usage data, and, call count, ownership of usage data, and, call count, ownership of usage data, and, actionable cost insight, demo path, actionable cost insight, demo path, actionable cost insight, demo path, clone repo, pip install mine or our, clone repo, pip install mine or our, clone repo, pip install mine or our, requirements.txt, txt. Point it at, requirements.txt, txt. Point it at, requirements.txt, txt. Point it at, yourcloud/ sessions directory and open, yourcloud/ sessions directory and open, yourcloud/ sessions directory and open, localhost 8000 to view dashboards., localhost 8000 to view dashboards., localhost 8000 to view dashboards., Performance is modest, handles thousands, Performance is modest, handles thousands, Performance is modest, handles thousands, of sessions in minutes. That wraps up, of sessions in minutes. That wraps up, of sessions in minutes. That wraps up, part one of this week's trending GitHub, part one of this week's trending GitHub, part one of this week's trending GitHub, repos. Thank you for watching. If you, repos. Thank you for watching. If you, repos. Thank you for watching. If you, found a project that sparks your, found a project that sparks your, found a project that sparks your, interest, please hit the like button, interest, please hit the like button, interest, please hit the like button, subscribe for more deep dives, and, subscribe for more deep dives, and, subscribe for more deep dives, and, enable notifications so you don't miss, enable notifications so you don't miss, enable notifications so you don't miss, part two. Let us know your favorite repo, part two. Let us know your favorite repo, part two. Let us know your favorite repo, in the comments below. Start the linked, in the comments below. Start the linked, in the comments below. Start the linked, projects in the description and try the, projects in the description and try the, projects in the description and try the, demos for
