Timestamp: 2025-05-30T23:19:57.107003
Title: 许成钢：制度基因与中国制度系列（完整版上）：谈中国经济不谈政治制度太近视｜极权主义制度下你名下的财产不是你的｜制度的核心是产权-政治权力的结构｜台湾为何民主了而中国大陆没有｜韩国为何民主了而朝鲜没有
URL: https://youtube.com/watch?v=Oqq9CHxGiWE&si=wQbjOSbC0Cm2A49A
Status: success
Duration: 2:16:25

Description:
好的，这是一份根据提供的文本整理的核心思想总结、框架和概念图。

**核心要点总结**

1.  **文本主题：** 讨论中国的制度，特别是极权主义，以及如何使用“制度基因”的概念来理解其本质、限制和演变可能性。
2.  **制度的定义（狭义）：** 作者聚焦于决定社会基本激励和协调机制的核心要素：人权、财产权结构、政治权力结构。
3.  **极权主义的本质：** 中国目前的制度是极权主义，其核心特征是由一个列宁主义政党（共产党）控制一切，不允许任何独立组织存在，人权和私有财产不被保障，最高领导人权力决定一切。
4.  **极权主义与威权主义的区别：** 极权主义控制更彻底，基于意识形态（如共产主义或民族主义）；威权主义控制相对宽松，可能允许有限的私有财产或社会力量存在，也更容易向民主宪政演变。
5.  **制度基因：** 指的是社会中与人权、财产权、政治权力分配相关的最基本、最稳定的状态和条件，以及社会共识。它是系统演变（尤其是向民主宪政转型）的必要条件，但不一定是充分条件（需要外部影响和偶然性）。
6.  **制度基因与经济分析：** 西方经济学模型建立在人权、法治、普遍私有产权等制度基因的基础上，不考虑这些基本假设而直接套用分析中国经济会导致严重误判。
7.  **制度基因与文化：** 制度与文化有交叉，尤其是非正式制度（如社会共识）。但制度基因更聚焦于激励和协调机制，比宽泛的文化概念更有助于理解系统的核心运作。
8.  **转型条件：** 从极权主义向民主宪政转型需要培育特定的制度基因，最重要的是普遍存在的私有产权和发达的公民社会。这些是公民意识、权利意识和组织能力的基础。
9.  **中国面临的危险：** 共产主义意识形态弱化可能导致极权统治腐化（向威权退化），但也可能转向民族主义意识形态来维持甚至强化极权统治。
10. **历史案例的启示：** 台湾和韩国的民主转型（有其制度基因基础、公民社会发展、外部压力）与大陆和朝鲜（缺乏这些基因，或被极权基因压制和强化）的路径差异，印证了制度基因的重要性。非洲一些国家转型失败，是因为缺乏必要的制度基因基础。

**核心结论句**

理解中国的制度，尤其是极权主义，关键在于分析其人权、财产权和政治决策权结构所决定的“制度基因”，这是判断其演变方向的基础。

**总体框架**

内容的总体框架是围绕“制度基因”这一核心概念展开的。它首先界定和聚焦制度的核心要素（人权、财产权、政治决策权），然后以此分析不同制度类型（极权、威权、民主宪政）的本质差异及其对经济和社会的深刻影响。接着，提出并阐述“制度基因”是影响系统演变潜力与限制的关键底层因素，并通过历史案例（台湾、韩国、朝鲜、前苏联波罗的海国家、德国、非洲）来印证理论，最终将分析落脚于中国的现状和未来可能路径，强调特定制度基因（普遍私有产权、公民社会）对未来转型的必要性。

**概念地图 (Mermaid Diagram)**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    A["制度理解"] --> B["制度 (狭义)"];
    B --> C["制度核心要素"];
    C --> D["人权"];
    C --> E["财产权结构"];
    C --> F["政治权力结构"];

    C --> G["制度类型"];
    G --> H["极权主义 (如中国)"];
    G --> I["威权主义"];
    G --> J["民主宪政"];

    K["制度基因"] --> G;
    K --> C; %% 制度基因体现于核心要素的状态
    K --> L["社会共识"];
    K --> M["公民社会"];
    K --> N["普遍私有产权"];

    J --> O["法治"];
    O --> P["司法独立"];
    J --> M; %% 民主宪政需要公民社会
    J --> N; %% 民主宪政需要普遍私有产权
    J --> O; %% 民主宪政需要法治

    H --> Q["列宁主义政党控制"];
    H --> R["意识形态 (共产/民族)"];
    H --> S["权力高度集中"];
    H --> T["人权/财产权无保障"];

    I --> U["权力集中但控制稍弱"];
    I --> V["可能存在有限社会力量/产权"];

    A --> W["经济学分析"];
    W --> X["经济学基本假设 (如法治/产权保护)"];
    X -- 不适用 --> H; %% 标准经济学假设不适用于极权/威权

    K --> Y["制度演变潜力/限制"];
    Y --> Z["偶然性/外部影响"]; %% 演变还受偶然性/外部影响

    subgraph "制度核心要素 Structure"
        D; E; F;
    end

    subgraph "制度类型 System Types"
        H; I; J;
    end

    subgraph "制度基因基础 Institutional Genes Basis"
        L; M; N; O;
    end

    subgraph "极权主义特征 Totalitarianism Characteristics"
        Q; R; S; T;
    end

    subgraph "民主宪政基础 Democracy Basis"
        O; P; M; N;
    end

    style H fill:#FFCCCC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#333;
    style J fill:#CCFFCC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#333;
    style I fill:#FFFFCC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style K fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#333;
    style C fill:#D3D3D3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style A fill:#F0F8FF,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style W fill:#F0F8FF,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style X fill:#F5F5DC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en The Chinese imperial system has always been an authoritarian system, that is, a totalitarian system is a modern institutional system. There are assumptions behind the consumer that people discuss in economics. It is that all those are called postulates or axioms. Behind the axioms are human rights. People who do not have human rights are not the same as people assumed in economics. Do not mistake this entrepreneur for being the owner of private property rights. You really own your property. This is a misunderstanding. When you are under a totalitarian system, your human rights are not guaranteed. When human rights are not guaranteed, the property that is nominally in your name is not yours. If people follow him on the path of nationalism, in fact, people are helping this totalitarianism. The system oppresses people themselves. When anyone blindly follows nationalism and shouts, you are actually destroying yourself. Nowadays, there are often people paying attention to China's economic situation every day, and they are paying attention to the highest leaders. The leader was on TV today. How is his health? Is there anyone who is advising him on policies? So is it meaningful to pay attention to the top and bottom leaders? The top leader in a totalitarian system is of course very important, because a totalitarian system means the top leader. It really determines the life and death of other people. Then he determines the life and death of the highest official around him. Then of course this together determines the various trends of the entire economy and political system. So of course it is very important, but when we understand that it is the most basic characteristic of totalitarianism, when issues such as personnel changes or inheritance arise, then in fact our discussion of the system gene is about the system. The analysis and discussion are very helpful. What is the truth? This help is to tell us that in such a totalitarian system, when there is a change of personnel, the top leader is the person. When things change or inheritance arises, etc. , you will have a very clear prediction to what extent the biggest change will occur. That is whether you have or do not have scientific concepts. Scientific analysis actually understands this issue. The difference is that after you have this scientific analysis, you know where the boundaries of this change are. That is the first point. I can be sure that it is completely certain that no matter what kind of change occurs, it is impossible. It is impossible to become a democratic constitutional system because it does not have this institutional gene. What is the best case scenario? The best case scenario is that it degenerates into an authoritarian system, which is a totalitarian system. When it undergoes personnel changes and major changes, even The impact of the outside world, all the various impacts are combined together, the most fortunate thing has happened, all combined together, the best possibility is to become an authoritarian, then the highest probability is To change from a totalitarian system to a totalitarian system is to change from a totalitarian system with the characteristics of one leader to another totalitarian system with the unique personal characteristics of another leader, but the basic system remains unchanged. The basic system is still a totalitarian system, but this leader Personal characteristics can vary, that is, some people have a high level of education, some have a low level of education, some are more cunning, some are more reckless, some are better at covering up, and some are more naked. Some people are more militant and some are more stable. This is the characteristic you encounter. But it is a totalitarian system. It does not allow any organization, especially a political party, to exist side by side with the Communist Party. It does not allow factions to exist within the party. It does not allow any of this. There is no organized behavior, that is, under this totalitarian system, it does not allow any independent organized behavior without the permission of the Communist Party. Nothing is allowed. Then the so-called private property that exists now In fact, it destroys human rights and crosses the rights of property owners in a way that suppresses human rights. This is what everyone must be clear about. Don’t mistakenly think that this entrepreneur, as an owner of private property rights, really owns your property. This is it. It is a misunderstanding that your human rights are not guaranteed under a totalitarian system. When human rights are not guaranteed, the property that is nominally in your name is not yours. This is something you must understand and everyone must understand. Entrepreneurs alone understand that the whole society needs to understand that this is the basic characteristic of totalitarianism. This is totalitarianism, that is, under the traditional communist totalitarian system, there is no nominal private property. But now China's totalitarian system is changing. This is why I emphasized just now that China has this danger. It is gradually moving from a totalitarian system based on communist ideology to a totalitarian system based on nationalist ideology. This is an extremely extreme situation. The dangerous transition is that if this transition finally passes, if people follow him on the path of nationalism, they are actually helping this totalitarian system to oppress people themselves. That is, when anyone blindly follows nationalism and shouts, you are actually Destroy yourself and everyone needs to realize this and then your own property is not really your own because people's property rights people's property rights are one of the basic parts of human rights but people Rights are combined. When you do not have the right to life, when you do not have the right to freedom of speech, you will actually lose it. You will lose it entirely because of your right to life, no right to move, and no right to freedom of speech. You will lose it entirely because of these. In fact, you may still want everyone to see the real institutional problems, especially under the framework of institutional genes, which are more core human rights, property rights, political participation rights, and political rights. On the other hand, there are economic news coming out every day. Many people will say that you have deliberately politicized economic issues, which is a bit of a fifty-cent criticism. There is another kind of criticism that is relatively mainstream or relatively orthodox. Economists and even some analysts of the economic system will say this, including investment analysts and investment strategy consultants at banks. We put aside political issues and we only talk about economic data, economic laws, and economic curves. Otherwise you will be too ideological and you will be more subjective. So I just raised a few questions. The first point is that the judgment of China's economy is inseparable from the understanding of this system. That is, if you have no understanding of China's system. When you understand it, your judgment on China's economy will definitely go wrong. Small judgments may be right in a short time, but big judgments will definitely go wrong. The reason is very simple. This reason is because of major changes and major changes. The big development trend is determined by this system, and the economics training we usually receive. I have spent a lot of time explaining that there is an assumption behind the economics training we usually receive. The assumption behind it is that human rights are protected. The rule of law is constitutional, so no one will infringe on the most basic rights. Then these decisions are made by private owners scattered in the market. All your land in China is state-owned, and almost all banks are. All upstreams are state-owned. These major policies are straightforward. Even if you don’t care about politics or China’s system, these major decisions are not decided by the private owners themselves, and they are not the supply in the market. The equilibrium that demand reaches is either achieved in this way, or your supply side is all state-owned land, state-owned banks, state-owned upstream, state-owned, and the commanding heights. It has already been set here. Then there is a very large demand side, which is also the demand side of the government. So you use the principles of economics and the statistics of econometrics. In fact, you have no way to catch these problems that arise in this system. Another one is When people say that there should be no ideology or political leanings when discussing economics, in a sense this is true. What does it mean? That is, we need to be objective, that is, objective analysis should not come from ideology. Objective analysis should not come from whether you like it or not. This is right in this sense, but in another sense this sentence may be too short-sighted. What is the reason for myopia? It is because it is actually impossible for social sciences to be separated from ideology. That is, when we talk about social sciences, for example, economics. When I first learned about what is human economics, the people discussed in economics are consumers. The consumers discussed in economics have assumptions behind them. All those are called postulates or axioms. Behind the axioms are human rights. People who don’t have human rights are not the same as people assumed in economics. So if you don’t know this, you say You have no ideology. In fact, you are wrong. Just like us as doctors, are you looking at this person or an animal? Haha, this is different. People are one type, and animals are another type. Among animals, it is different whether you are a bird or a suckling or a suckling. Whether you are a cat, a dog or a horse is different. So if you don’t know that your object is different, you are mistaken. In life sciences, you can say that I am very abstract, so I am very abstract. I don’t care if it is a human or an animal. I care whether it is a cell. You can do that. What you care about is a cell. But as soon as you go to medicine, you must first know that your cell is a human being. Is the cell active in the human body or is your cell the one in the animal? It is synthesized and synthesized in the human body. It is different in the mouse. You can We can use mice to do experiments, but experiments done on mice cannot be easily applied to humans. So when we talk about systems, this is what we mean. The system is talking about its series of basic operating mechanisms, which are different behind what you mentioned. This basic assumption and that assumption are also different, so people who don’t know these most basic points actually have not mastered economic science. I understand ourselves and we are the only ones in this industry. Most people in this field really don’t know that they know it. It is a misunderstanding. They mistakenly believe that our social sciences must have no ideology and no political stance. He mistakenly believes that this has no political stance. I have neither a Democratic stance nor a Republican stance. I don’t even have the position of the Communist Party, but I have a position on human rights. The human rights position is not the position of the party, but the position of people’s basic rights. This is what I always stand for. On the one hand, it means that we regard human rights, property rights, and political decision-making power as the most basic point of our analysis. On the other hand, I cannot do without my position. My position is that I am on the side of protecting human rights. I am not on the side of opposing human rights. On the one hand, I am not on the side that human rights don’t matter. The reason why I define the system like this is because I think human rights are the most basic. On the other hand, I It is my value. On the other hand, I think this is also the most basic phenomenon of social science. I think that not only people who know this must be wrong when discussing social science, but when you discuss social science and you do not know that human rights are the most basic, you must be wrong. Wrong, you are still too much of a gentleman. You are using the wrong one. You are still too much of a gentleman. Well, let’s ask some more specific questions. Why do we ask them? Because these past few months have been serious. My friends who have watched a lot of your explanations of this institutional gene in this video are actually following you very seriously, so there are many viewers including us Daesang who are asking questions on various platforms to study this question clearly. How decisive is the institutional gene? Many people are asking this question. There are two users. One is named garynn611. He is really in our area. After watching this two-and-a-half-hour video, he asked a question, but you can answer it quickly. He said that Germany implemented a democratic constitutional system during the Weimar Republic but later moved towards fascist totalitarianism. So what is the so-called institutional gene? To what extent can it play a decisive role? If it cannot play a completely decisive role, is there any big shortcoming in using institutional genes to explain changes in social systems? Yes, actually, let me answer this abstract question first, that is, in what sense is this institutional gene decisive? Institutional genes are necessary conditions but not sufficient conditions. So in this sense, as a necessary condition, it is decisive, but it is not. The sufficient condition is that it is not a decision. It is not decisive. It means that it still needs the opportunity to get the opportunity. If it does not happen, it will not happen. The fact that it happens does not mean that the institutional gene will cause this to happen automatically. It will not happen automatically. For example, when people talk about whether it is Taiwan, South Korea, or Japan, it later became a constitutional government, so it has its own system. Gene means that all the necessary conditions are present, and when it finally happens, you still have quite a lot of historical events. For example, historical events include Chiang Ching- kuo. He realizes that there shouldn't be blood because it can't be stopped. He realizes that it can't be stopped. It's caused by the system's genes. It can't be stopped. So it's the system's genes that tell him it can't be stopped. So I'd rather go with the trend, but he Can you realize that not everyone can realize that this is where Chiang Ching-kuo is remarkable as an individual? If we give him credit, then Lee Teng-hui will also be under social pressure. So big, this is brought about by the institutional gene, and then he can obey, and this is the case in South Korea and so on. This is only a necessary condition, not a sufficient condition. Then there is this history. In fact, to a large extent, history is the evolution of the system. In fact, it is this kind of randomness. But this randomness is not really completely random. This is why institutional genes are important. The very basic part of the institutional gene is its necessary condition. Under this necessary condition, it is random, just like the weather forecast. The thing about Germany is that it was actually the German democracy when the Weimar Republic was established. The institutional genes of constitutionalism are not perfect, far from perfect. So the reason why the Nazis were able to succeed was actually because of this in Germany at that time. Three forces are fighting each other here, which means that its institutional gene has three parts. One of the three parts is the power of democratic constitutionalism, which is what enabled it to establish the Weimar Republic, but there are also two other forces. The other two forces are quite large. One of the forces is this nationalism. This nationalism was later incited to such a high level that it finally became The Nazi system gene was originally there, and it was in the process of German unification in the second half of the 19th century, gradually gradually gradually gradually getting higher and higher, that is, it was already established during the Bismarck period. It's been going on for a long, long time and decades. It's not a short-term thing. It wasn't started by Hitler alone. Another force was the one that helped the Nazis. The Communist Party was the Communist International established by the Bolsheviks in 1918. It then went to Germany and began to engage in riots. Riots and mutinies occurred in many cities in Germany. Under the leadership of the Communist Party, Under this very serious challenge, Yan helped nationalism suppress the Communist Party because the majority of Germans did not like the Communist Party, but the Communist Party was very violent, so it gave the Nazis an opportunity. Inciting nationalism in turn suppresses the Communist Party, so to understand it, you must understand the complex and complicated relationships within this institutional gene. However, the institutional gene is a very helpful analytical tool that can help us see clearly what happened. By the way, you can also add another One issue is the determinism and contingency of this system's genes. You have also explained this issue. So in fact, your point of view is that it is quite important and determinative, but there is still contingency. Natural conditions need to appear, yes, yes, it's a bit, a bit like, a bit like this earthquake forecast. We say that California is an earthquake zone, but no one knows what an earthquake is, and no one knows the specific size of an earthquake. The reason is because we Physically, we know that such a strong stress has accumulated in this place, and we know how much energy it will erupt sooner or later. However, there are many, many other conditions for how the eruption will occur. I don’t know this, so it’s the most basic point. I don’t know the other parts are random. Another one is actually following the sentence just now. Let me follow you because you just mentioned it. You said that in fact, the Chinese imperial system is at the end of the The impact on society was actually authoritarian at that time, not totalitarian. The Chinese imperial system has always been an authoritarian system, and it is a totalitarian system. It is a modern system. This is actually the definition of totalitarianism. The system is based on the totalitarian party. The totalitarian party itself is a modern system. This type of system did not exist before the totalitarian party was born. When talking about China's problems, we always compare China's totalitarian society to the Qin system. In fact, you said last time that the more critical influence is not Qin. Although we often talk about this now, it requires special time because it is quite big to expand, but we need to talk about this because this It’s also a common question. As long as you bring it up, I’ll be fine. Because this is also a very important misunderstanding, because people often refer to the current totalitarian state as Qin. In fact, it’s not the same. You showed your face last time, so many people are asking you what’s wrong. What I can say is that this question is the root question of my book. I can handle two-fifths of the content in a relatively brief way. So just ask me today and I will know how to handle it. So thank you, Teacher Xu. I know it. Regarding the issue of institutional genes, there are actually many, many issues and discussions, so in fact, as you said, this may be a framework for understanding this issue. We can continue to discuss, continue to discuss, if the British public and voters generally believe that they do not want the royal family to exist anymore. As long as you vote, it will cease to exist. He knows that, so they are the same as politicians. He is careful every day to perform like a politician. Like a politician, he must attract the people and convince the people. Only when the people love him can he survive. The people cannot sway him. He does not need to care about what the people think, but the people can sway him. He knows that the people cannot change the monarch, but the people can say I don’t want the monarchy. Then he will do it. So this is what you can see. It turns out that behind this informal system is the social consensus. A basic condition behind whether all the principles of economics can be applied is whether there is rule of law. When there is no rule of law, there is no rule of law. A large number of basic principles of economics cannot be applied in practice. This is why, as an economics scholar, I spend a lot of energy on this place and discuss it. To see whether a place has the rule of law, we must first check whether the judiciary is independent. China is too simple. The Communist Party of China constantly and repeatedly emphasizes that the party leads everything. The law of party leadership is that the party-state is a united party-state. The party-state has already been decided for you. When it is decided, you Can we negotiate with him? What I want to emphasize is what exactly do we mean by system? For example, when property rights and political rights are all concentrated together, then in fact all ordinary people will become slaves. First of all, what is the key question? Talk about institutions because it will be very important to understand your new book Institutional Genes, so you will talk about why you need to explain institutions and what institutions are. Since you want to discuss institutional genes, you must first discuss them. It is only through the system that we can discuss institutional genes. But what is a system? In fact, whether it is in the common understanding of the public or among scholars and academia, there is not only one view, but there are different views. So I want to start with this. I want to explain this very clearly. What is the meaning of the system I am discussing? That is why the first thing to discuss about the system is this. I will use it first, which is the most popular definition in academia. So let me first explain the most popular definition in academic circles. This definition was proposed by Douglas North. He won the Nobel Prize in Economics in 1998. I may not remember it accurately this year. It was the Nobel Prize in the 1990s. The economic award is because of his discussion on system changes. His definition of system is that the system is the rule of a person's behavior. Then he defines the person's behavior as a person's behavior. This game, this rule, he combines this with this, these constraints that people design for themselves are how to limit themselves. He defines this as a system. So the system I am talking about is basically what he said. It's the same thing, so anyone who is familiar with North's definition can think that's my definition. But I intentionally narrowed the scope of my definition. The reason why I narrowed it is because of his definition. Meaning, when he proposed this definition, he consciously wanted his definition to be all-encompassing and include all systems. But I was conscious to make the system I discussed not all-inclusive, but I only care about the most important system. So when I When I talk about the system, I narrow it down. What I mean by the system refers to this. I express it in a more abstract way, which refers to how to provide people with incentive mechanisms, people, and people. The coordination between them is the most stable and basic ones that provide incentive mechanisms and coordinate people's behavior. I call it a system, which means all these rules. There are many rules, such as football and basketball. Family, marriage, everything, these are all institutions, but when I talk about this, I only look at the major ones that provide incentive mechanisms and provide coordination, so I narrowed this issue to a scope, which is big. To be more specific, when I discuss the system, I am most concerned about these three basic elements. As soon as these three basic elements came out, they became narrower. What are the three basic elements? The first is human rights, the second is property rights, and the third is property rights. It is the right to make political decisions, so what I only care about is that when I discuss the system, I define it within this scope, which is human rights, property rights, and political decision-making rights. Even if political decision-making rights are not included in these three scopes, I will not discuss them. I'm not saying that it's not a system, but that's not the scope of my discussion. So the institutional genes I'm discussing are all things discussed within this scope. I'll come back to the discussion later and talk about the issue of institutional genes. It's this system. When we discuss and define these three When it comes to basic elements, all my discussions below about the system are nothing more than discussing these three basic elements. What are the basic rights of people in any specific society? What are the property rights? How are political rights allocated? When it comes to property rights and political rights, there is another important aspect. My basic perspective on the problem is that its structure in society is the structure of its property rights. What is the structure of political power? To discuss it in the simplest terms, it means whether it is highly concentrated or decentralized. For example, the most highly concentrated property rights are comprehensive state ownership, which means they are all concentrated together. All individuals have no property rights, so these are two extremes. One extreme is that everyone has similar property rights. This is egalitarianism. The other extreme is this. Of course, it is also average. When everyone has no property rights, only the country has it. Who controls it? The state controls everything. The same goes for political power. That means that all people have considerable political decision-making power, or that all political power is concentrated in one place. Each party holds it in the hands of one person, so I call it structure. When we talk about the so-called system, what the system discusses is its property rights and its political rights. What is its structure like? It consists of its property rights and its The structure of political rights determines the status of its human rights in this society, that is, whether human rights are protected or whether human rights are always violated, comprehensively violated, and trampled on. For example, when this property right and this When all political power is concentrated together, then in fact all ordinary people become slaves. Then these people are human only when this property right and its political decision-making power are dispersed in the hands of all people in all societies. His human rights are when we say we protect human rights, it sounds like a slogan. In fact, whether human rights can be protected does not entirely depend on ideology. It does not entirely depend on whether people want to protect them. But whether people have the ability to protect means whether people can realize that they have that right. Do they realize that they not only have this right but also want to protect and have the ability to protect? When people can realize that they have this right, of course they have to Only with him can we realize that when people do not have basic rights for generations, people will not have the awareness that they have this right. So this is when we talk about the system, this is actually me. I want to emphasize what exactly we are talking about when we talk about the system, because the system is that if I simply use North's definition and it is all-encompassing, then people will not be able to figure out who is important and who is secondary. Many, many people. He said that he discusses systems, but in fact what he studies is very, very minute and detailed. It is a system, but it is a very minute and detailed matter. But I think I hope that what we care about most is the biggest thing. What is the biggest thing? It means whether those who trample human rights or those who protect human rights are here. In this society, the majority of people are ruled by others, or the majority of people can decide their own destiny. So this is what I think this is the most important thing for social science. The question of concern, of course, is that the next question is that people will say that they are economics people, why discuss something that seems to have nothing to do with economics? So this, I want this to be explained, it is actually This is what a lot of people are doing. In the process of development of social science, they will consciously want to separate a certain subject from other things, that is, to separate certain types of phenomena from other phenomena. Isolation is considered to be a method of analyzing problems, but from a scientific point of view, this is what people call analysis. This is called analysis. The so-called analysis is to first isolate it and then separate it. The finer the separation, the finer the separation. This is called analysis, which is called the first step. From a scientific point of view, this is an inevitable thing to do. But science must not stop here. In fact, it is not just society. Science is the same as natural science. Natural science, for example, physical science, physical science, you have physical science. At the same time, we discuss the smallest and smallest among all disciplines, which are elementary particles. At the same time, we discuss the largest and largest among all disciplines. Traditionally, the universe has been traced back earlier. People will separate the smallest discussed and the largest discussed. However, in today's physics, the two are inseparable. This has been ever since Einstein began to explore the unified field theory until now. In fact, the most challenging and important issue in all physics is to try to combine the discussion of the smallest and smallest ones, which are elementary particles, and the discussion of the largest and largest ones, which are the entire universe. Only by putting them together can you really understand All understandings of the physical world are inseparable from this. In fact, social science is the same as economics, which is a part of social science. A traditional view is that in economics, what you discuss is the so-called resource allocation problem. The history of economics that has dominated economics for about a hundred years is to define economics as discussing the issue of resource allocation. My opinion is that this has certain advantages at one stage of the development of economics. It is that it Separate the problem and help people concentrate their efforts to analyze it clearly in a relatively narrow range. But it is similar to the development of physics. In fact, it is time to change people's perspective on the problem. The reason is because in fact, even if all we care about is resource allocation, even if you really don’t care about anything else and only care about resource allocation, you can’t do without the issues we just talked about. The question I just talked about is these three basic elements: human rights, property rights and political power. What do they look like in this society? For example, if we talk about the resource allocation of a market economy, what is a market economy? When we use the concept of market economy, in reality There is an implicit assumption behind the above. The implicit assumption is that it is private ownership. What is private ownership? There is also an implicit assumption that when people usually call it private ownership, they refer to the general public in this society. Everyone in this society has private property rights. It does not mean that there are only a few monopolies in your society who have private property rights. This is called private ownership. Usually, private ownership does not mean that everyone in the society has private property rights. So in When most people in society have private property rights, then these people with private property rights have their own interests and abilities and require the protection of their own interests. This promotes the emergence of We call this political structure the democratic constitutional system. This democratic constitutional system is actually the basis of the market economy. If you leave the democratic constitutional system, the market economy cannot operate normally. But economics Because economics emerged quite late, for example, people usually think of Adam Smith as the pioneer of political economics. So when did economics emerge? That was the time when the industrial revolution had begun. That was the time when democratic constitutionalism was already established. Democracy was still halfway there. It was semi-democracy, not complete democracy. Semi-democracy means that the social elite voted. But if you are not the social elite, you are the social elite. It is a very small circle, but it is not all people. So this was introduced later in this context and the whole people can vote. It was slowly introduced, but its basis is constitutionalism. It is based on constitutionalism. Under the conditions, so in fact, when Adam Smith created political economics, the political and economic system was always the core issue in Adam Smith's discussion, so it is economics. If we say that it originated in Adam Smith, economics at that time was Adam Smith, who was inseparable from discussing political issues, discussed a very important issue at that time: the comparison between Britain and France. Why was there such a big gap between Britain and France? What was his point? The reason for the times is that Britain has a constitutional system. Under the constitutional system, it protects property rights. Protecting property rights enables people to have good incentives. People have good incentives to operate in the market and achieve such results. In France at that time, it was absolutely Under the absolute monarchy, the protection of property rights is not good enough. In this case, people do not dare to invest because they are afraid of being cut off by Louis XIV and Louis XV. When people are afraid of being cut off, your economy will not be able to develop. Then this is actually the political and economic system. So when I just talked about Adam Smith, if we talk about it today, how do we understand the Chinese economy? Understanding is the current society. In fact, since the founding of the People's Republic of China, it has been a very, very important basic background, which is the entire world. There are two major camps: one is called capitalism and the other is called socialism or communism, which is the Communist Party group. The People's Republic of China is a member of the Communist Party group, and this has not changed to this day. Although this Communist group was established in 1989-1 During 1992, the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe were partially disintegrated, but China was still there. China still had that system. This basic system has not undergone the most basic changes compared to that time. So how to deal with it? The answer is what China's economy is like, so I went to study abroad in early 1984. In fact, when I came to study abroad, the first and most important thing in my mind was the Chinese system and the basic lines. The American system is two different systems, so I remember that I would talk privately with my teacher at the time, and I said that after I arrived in the United States, I found it difficult to understand the American system, because I said that I was like a person from the moon. When I came to the earth, there is gravity on the earth. The moon has no gravity. Then I was on the moon and there was no gravity. I thought it was natural. Suddenly I arrived at a place with gravity. Everything was different. So this is actually me in me. I have never changed when looking at this series of discussions in economics. At this point, I have always believed that you have to rethink any basic assumptions in economics, which are those that already exist in economics. Content There is a basic assumption behind it. The basic assumption behind it is that it is a constitutional government. It is a rule of law. Constitution and the rule of law are natural in economics, and there are human rights. It is human rights, constitutionalism and the rule of law. These are all a series of backgrounds. All the models written down in economics, all the mathematical derivation in economics, etc. The starting point is that you first think that everyone has human rights. You first think that there is a rule of law behind everything. Everyone thinks that it is a constitutional government and no one will infringe upon it. Then there are all these things. Then once you start discussing China, you have to reconsider the relationship between people. Do you think this is the relationship between people? Do people have human rights? You have the rule of law. Is there a constitutional government? Well, what I am talking about now is a bit abstract. To be more specific, for example, the most important basic content in economics is about contracts. But what is a contract? There is a very important basic condition for a contract. Both parties to the contract are equal and the signing of the contract is voluntary, so in economics when he wrote the model, there was a very important basic condition in it, which is that it is all voluntary. If you don't want to, just leave. But in China under the rule of the Communist Party, the Communist Party Is the relationship with people like this? For example, if you are a state-owned enterprise, this situation is even more prominent and serious when the reform and opening up has not yet begun or when the reform and opening up has just begun. Are ordinary people and enterprises equal? ​​Can ordinary people negotiate with enterprises? And if you don't agree with this, can you leave? You can even divide houses and even have children. This party is a party-state, a party-state that is united. The party-state has already been decided for you. When it is decided, can you negotiate with it? This is the principle of economics that cannot be applied. So when we talk about the system, this is actually very specific. This is not simple. That is to say, I want to use a word and a concept, but it is very specific. When we encounter a practical problem, even if it is a purely economic problem, how do you understand it? You must not simply copy the things in economics. The reason is It’s because there are assumptions behind the content discussed in economics. When your condition does not meet its implicit assumption, if you move it over, you will get everything wrong. So this is what we are discussing why. Discuss institutions, then institutions. Why does economics discuss institutions? The reason is that in fact, when economics uses this method to discuss common phenomena, you must not be limited to the implicit assumptions that are already there and the implicit ones. The assumption must not be just an implicit assumption, that is, you have to look at it very clearly and directly. That is, you need to be a bit like Newtonian mechanics. He said that the law of universal gravitation is actually A hypothesis, the so-called law of universal gravitation is actually a hypothesis. Then when you get to the general theory of relativity, this hypothesis is thrown away, and there is no such hypothesis. It becomes that this mass will actually create space by itself, and then this mass It will produce the curvature of space. This gives rise to a broader understanding, but it includes the content of Newtonian mechanics. The same principle is the same as when economics was born when Adam Smith It assumes that there is a harmonious relationship between people because it is the Scottish school. The Scottish school discusses the place where the industrial revolution started in Scotland. Then there is a harmonious relationship between people. When the spirit of contract is not harmonious between people, it is actually impossible for the spirit of contract to arise. Whether it is Adam Smith or Hume, there are a lot of discussions on this issue, and this The problem is actually the system. Is it possible for you to have a contract? Is it possible for everyone to believe in this contract? Why do you believe it when you make a contract? So there are layers here, because when everyone thinks If you act in accordance with the contract, others will also act in accordance with the contract. If you serve others today, others will serve you tomorrow. When there is a general social consensus that people are like this, you have the spirit of contract. This is a facet. What I just said is actually a paraphrase of Hume's words in plain language. Hume is explaining what happened to the contract during the industrial revolution. What happened to the contract? That is a basic system. This is not what you want to have. It has something to do with your entire social environment, that is, if you make a contract with a certain local gangster or an organization of the party-state, then they will not only break the contract but also use violence. You then you do it twice From now on, no one will dare to believe in this contract, right? What should you do when you don’t believe it? You have to come up with all kinds of strange ways. Although there is a contract on the surface, In fact, if you are not in this society with human rights and the rule of law, what people do is another approach. Then another level is the rule of law, which is why the rule of law is so important. And of course it is also related to what is the rule of law, the rule of law, and this is governance. The rule is rule of Law is the rule of law because the Communist Party of China continues to use particularly confusing concepts to confuse this concept. So this place must be briefly explained. In fact, the most important thing in the so-called rule of law is judicial independence. When there is no judicial independence The rule of law must not exist. Judicial independence is a necessary condition for the rule of law. It is not a sufficient condition but a necessary condition. Therefore, to see whether a place has the rule of law, you must first look at whether the judiciary is independent. In China, it is too simple. The Communist Party of China constantly and repeatedly emphasizes that the party leads everything. The party leads the law. The entire court system has a party committee. This is the highest level of the entire court system. Leadership means that within the court system, the highest leader is the Party Committee of the Supreme People's Court of the People's Republic of China. Then its superiors are There is the Political and Legal Committee of the Communist Party of China. At the top is the Political and Legal Committee, and then the General Secretary of the Communist Party of China is in charge of the Political and Legal Committee. So the final decision-making power on everything is in the hands of the supreme leader of the Communist Party, not in the hands of the Communist Party. In the hands of the court, this is what it is. Its structure tells you that there is no rule of law in this place. So why is the rule of law so important? It is important because the spirit of contract we just talked about is the mutual trust between people. This must be the most basic condition of the contract. It must be the most basic condition for the operation of the market economy. But this alone is not enough. Things need to be protected because if you can’t prevent it, you can’t exclude that there may be one or two percent of the people in a society who are not Those who do this are not complying and are trying to deceive people. What should we do at this time? So you need this court to help enforce the contract. Most of us have the spirit of the contract and act according to the contract. But you can’t rule out a few. If people don't do this, then I have no choice but to go to court. And this is purely because we have different understandings of each other, not because, not because We do bad things because we have different interests and different understandings. And because we have different understandings of this, we end up having disputes about this contract. What should we do? We need a neutral court to help us make judgments. Helping us build this confidence is that when we have a dispute, we will have a neutral arbitration institution to help us resolve it. Definitely, this is the rule of law, so when there is no rule of law, you actually have no way to prevent these things. So when you don’t have the rule of law, you will have bad people taking advantage of loopholes, and even the party and the country. The Chinese say that one rat droppings can ruin a pot of soup. Even if there are only a few, they will be very destructive, not to mention that they will be very destructive. The destructive power of the party and the government will be even greater. So this is actually when we discuss economics. One of the basic conditions behind whether all the principles of economics can be applied is whether there is the rule of law. Under the rule of law, many basic principles of economics cannot actually be applied. This is why, as an economics scholar, I The reason why quantitative power is spent on discussing it here is because we need to make the original implicit assumptions explicit and analyze them explicitly. This way we can analyze what is happening in places without the rule of law. This is why a place without the rule of law is like you. In order to understand its economy, you must first know what a place without the rule of law is like. What we are concerned about is the structure of property rights and political rights. When we talk about systems, the issue we really focus on is the structure of property rights and political rights. There is also a very natural issue that people are often willing to discuss, which is the so-called There is even debate over whether it is institutional determinism or whether it is determined by culture. Of course, earlier, there was also materialism. I think materialism is determined by productivity. I think we deserve to clarify this issue and explain it to you in detail, which is the relationship between system and culture. Because many people have actually raised questions and may come back to see culture in the end. But because you just clearly explained these three key features of the system, or you are concerned about The focus is very specific. We are not discussing a cultural phenomenon, nor are we discussing the rules of this game in a football match. You are very specific about human rights, property rights, political decision-making rights, and there is another thing that has been ignored. There is an independent judiciary and there is a basic rule of law. Then why don’t you exclude discussing cultural issues? And why does culture not It is not the most critical issue when discussing institutions, because when we discuss institutions, whether you use North's definition or my narrowed definition or this, when we discuss culture, they are actually both There are quite a lot of intersections that cover each other, and the two cannot be completely exclusive, so I don't agree with this simple discussion. The so-called institutional determinism and the so-called cultural determinism are this kind of debate. In fact, it is not the most helpful because we use this scientific perspective because our purpose is to understand the world clearly. From the perspective of clearly understanding the world, this and this absolute use exclusion. It is actually not helpful to discuss it in this way. So I will now explain what these two overlapping parts are because the so-called system I quoted North's definition just now. When North discusses institutions, he uses his definition. On the other hand, when discussing specific forms, he divides institutions into two categories: formal institutions and informal institutions. The so-called formal system is usually understood to refer to this formal written system, which is a formally established system with laws. The so-called informal system refers to an understanding between people, but it may not be written in writing. For example, in Chinese colloquialism, it is called a gentleman's agreement. A gentleman's agreement is an informal system. Gentlemen, suppose our gentleman's agreement is A long-term contract, a long-term contract relationship, then a long-term contract relationship is a system, then this long-term contract relationship if you write it down The signed one went to court, which means that the court can make judgments. So this is obviously a formal system. But if this is a long-term employment, we have actually hired it, but nothing has been written. But we both understand that this may be true. How long will it take for this person to do this in my house to help? In the past, the term nanny was called nanny. Even the children in this family may call her aunt and not nanny. Then we may recognize Because I have taken care of her for the rest of my life, we all think so, but we actually operate like this, but nothing is written. This is an informal system, so it can be as small as a specific transaction between a specific person, and it can be as large as this country. The most typical constitutional government of a constitutional country is the constitutional government of the United States. It is the so-called founding fathers of the United States who formulated a constitution and then it has been going on for more than two hundred years until now. As long as it operates according to this constitution, then this is a formal system. But if we look at the United Kingdom, there is no written constitution at all. So part of the British constitutional government is a non-political system because it has not been written down at all. Just like you, aunt, we just talked about. In your family, both of you think that she has become a part of your family since she has been in your family all her life, but they haven't written it down. This is better than others writing it down. The relationship needs to be more constant, stable and reliable. We think that we all know each other this way. This is the UK. In fact, the UK has been stable since the Glorious Revolution happened in 1688 and 1689. Until now, there has never been an internal incident. From a constitutional perspective, Britain has not had a major crisis since the late 17th century until now. It is more stable than the United States. There have been several major crises of trust. For example, the civil war is happening now. We will not discuss it for now. So this informal system does not mean that it is unimportant, nor does it mean that it is unstable. Since we have discussed the informal system The question immediately arises. What is it? What does it do to the informal system? In fact, in both the formal system and the informal system, the most effective thing is not violence. But the consensus of people is that people generally believe that this must be done, which is the so-called convention. Then this becomes a part of the system and culture. The so-called informal system actually relies on people's social consensus and convention, and this This kind of social consensus often has great power, that is, even though it is not written down, it is difficult for the court to make a ruling because it is not written down and the court cannot make a ruling. That is, you cannot use violence to enforce it, but because it is a kind of social consensus, when you obviously violate the social consensus, you will cause a generally strong reaction in society, which is generally very strong. The reaction becomes this pressure, this pressure that you can't bear. This is what makes this so-called informal system enforceable. For example, the British constitutional monarchy system. This constitutional government, the relationship between the monarch and the monarch and the parliament is not written in the constitution. But you can see that since the Glorious Revolution, the monarch has been very, very careful. You can if you care about the British monarch, he is issuing a formal statement. For example, King Charles changed from a prince to a king because his mother passed away and he wanted to be officially sworn in as king. So when he was sworn in The text of his oath has been handed down from ancient times. The word he used when he took the oath of office was written a long time ago. According to that word, if you explain it carefully, he swears that he is the sovereign. He swears that this country is under his control. That is But in fact, he just said this, and the parliament would not object to it, because in fact, the real power of this country lies in the parliament and is not in his hands. But when he said this, he was based on ancient times. That's what the written word says, so you can see at this time that what it says in this text can be regarded as a formal system with what it says in its informal text. The thing he reads is a formal system, but this informal system is The formal system that overwhelms him is that his power is not in his hands at all, but what he says is that he is sovereign, right? This is actually very good, and one example after another is that. Why can't he violate it? Because they know not to say that he wants to trample on the power of this parliament. He absolutely dare not touch it. He doesn't even dare to offend ordinary people. They have always been very cautious. Logically speaking, as a royal family, he is hereditary, right? People can replace him and no one can say that what he did was wrong, etc. But he knows that if the British people generally think that they are not I hope that the royal family will no longer exist. As soon as you vote, it will cease to exist. He knows that, so they are the same as politicians. He is careful to perform like a politician every day. Like a politician, he must attract the people and make the people love him. Only if the people love him can he survive. Whether it can survive depends on this informal system. This is informal because there has never been a referendum on whether it should exist or not. This referendum has not been held. The reason why it has not been included. OK, because it’s not necessary because people think they still love him. When you have enough people who don’t love him anymore, this informal system will go to a formal place. Formal, there will be a referendum on whether we still want him. Well, the royal family has always known that this possibility exists. There are many, many, many examples. Look at the most typical example. After Diana passed away, the Queen came out and did not speak for several days, and then the common people The British people are anxious and she came out. This is the pressure. If the people can't shake her, she doesn't need to care what the people think, but the people can shake her. She knows that the people can't change the monarch, but the people can say that I If there is no monarchy, then she will do it. So this is what you can see is this informal system. Behind it is the social consensus. But of course this social consensus means people It is natural to think that social consensus is a kind of culture. When you interpret it as a culture, it is not wrong. It can indeed be considered a kind of culture. For example, the spirit of contract. People say that the spirit of contract is a kind of culture. This is not wrong either. It is a kind of system, but when we talk about the system, it is the system. Then the next question comes back, which is whether we are talking about the system or the culture. So the reason why in this place I don’t The reason why we use culture instead of system is because culture is a very broad concept. Yes, but when we talk about system, we narrow the issue very accurately. So when you simply talk about culture, what does culture include? Culture includes a lot. It’s very wide, that’s how you cook, the different styles of cooking, these are all culture, how do you dance, sing, this opera, Peking Opera, this symphony, or this rock and roll This is all culture. There are many parts of culture. Clothes, this, and fashion are all culture. Many cultures have no direct relationship with institutions. Therefore, some cultures and institutions overlap, so we use the concept of institution instead of the concept of culture This is why I don’t agree with this simple discussion, the so-called institutional determinism or cultural determinism. There is a kind of exclusivity in the discussion, which actually does not help people understand. Instead of discussing it like that, it is better to discuss the system. What exactly is it? And to what extent does the system determine these mechanisms? So what is a system? In fact, the system is what I just mentioned. When talking about this definition, I said that it is an important mechanism. This mechanism determines the provision of incentives. It is an incentive mechanism and a coordination mechanism. So as long as we are discussing this long-term stability What we are discussing is the basic incentive mechanism and coordination mechanism of the system. There are cultural things in this mechanism, and there are important cultural components in it. Because how do people form a long-term consensus? You can say that this is a cultural phenomenon. There is nothing wrong with that. But such a cultural phenomenon provides an incentive mechanism. This incentive mechanism is related to political decisions on human rights and property rights. That power is related to these issues, so we call this thing a system, so it is a formal one made by Chiang Ching-kuo. The correct decision is that he actually learned from Roh Taiyu, so he said that when I lifted the party ban and newspaper ban, it was his very rapid privatization and then added his constitutional protection and his legal system protection, so it became Taiwan. Not to mention, this private ownership developed very, very quickly in the 1950s. During the Taisho Democratic Period, the specific time was the 19th century. From the 1910s to the 1920s, a total of more than ten years, a party was formed in Taiwan. This is a political party. The political party is for political power and to compete for political power. Local elections at all levels in Taiwan have been held by the Chinese Empire in the 19th century. At the end of the century, it had existed for more than 2, 000 years, while Taiwan had only been under the rule of the Chinese Empire for more than 200 years. There is a saying that this national character often has Some people talk about why there is no democracy in China, why China always cannot choose to adopt democracy. They just say that the national character is not good, and then let it go. As soon as it comes down, everyone will ask why China and the Communist Party of Taiwan have taken completely different paths from Taiwan. You take Taiwan? Also, can you explain more about South Korea and North Korea? This culture is not the best entry point for understanding the genes of your system. Let’s talk about this, maybe this, Taiwan is the most representative. First, let’s take a look at this. Because the purpose of what I just talked about about the system is to discuss the system gene. I have already had some discussions about the system gene last time, so I will briefly summarize it for now and expand it later when necessary. I will briefly discuss it briefly for now and use the concept of institutional genes to discuss the differences between Taiwan and Mainland China. The first point is that Taiwan’s institutional genes are different from those of mainland China. Let’s first set the time for this institutional gene to the end of the 19th century, which is the time of the Treaty of Shimonoseki. Then this time to Shimonoseki At this time of the treaty, the Treaty of Shimonoseki later ceded Taiwan and turned it into a Japanese colony. Before it was ceded, it became a Japanese colony. Before it was part of the Qing Empire, the next question is that it was a part of the Qing Empire. What is the status of the institutional genes of a partial Chinese imperial system in Taiwan? How does it compare with that in mainland China? What is the relationship between the two in China? The empire had existed for more than 2, 000 years at the end of the 19th century, while Taiwan was under the rule of the Chinese Empire for only more than 200 years. This is not only a short period of time, but more importantly, the emperor is far away from the past. When we say Tiangao Emperor is far away, we mean the south of the southern mainland of China. But even the south of the mainland is connected by land and there is Hainan Island, but Hainan Island is far away. The mainland is only a few dozen kilometers away, so the distance is relatively close. According to the navigation conditions at the time, it was relatively easy to get over. Even the actual rule of the Chinese imperial system on Hainan Island was very shallow. Taiwan is quite far away from the mainland. According to the navigation conditions at the time, it was This distance of more than 100 kilometers and nearly 200 kilometers was at that time, and the Pacific Ocean was very fierce. The crossing of the Pacific Ocean The Strait is sometimes very dangerous, so the reality is that the institutional gene of the Chinese imperial system in Taiwan is very weak. So how to measure this weakness? One of the simple measurement methods is to look at this. One of the methods that can be quantitatively measured is to look at the imperial examination system. How many Jinshis have there been in total for more than two hundred years? It is part of the Chinese empire. There are only twenty-nine Jinshis in total for more than two hundred years. There are only twenty-nine in total. As a part of Fujian Province, at the same time, how many were there in Fujian Province? There were a thousand or hundreds in Fujian Province, so the ratio is very low. If we continue by population ratio, it is still The same truth is told to us: only a very small proportion of the Taiwanese population has passed the Jinshi examination, while people in Fujian Province on the mainland say that heaven Emperor Gao is far away from Fujian Province, which belongs to the place where Emperor Gao is far away. There are so many Jinshis. Why is this important? Because the imperial examination system is not just a simple examination. The imperial examination system is a bureaucratic system. The imperial examination system determines who comes out of here. How many people can be officials? Then we can say that they can become the Chinese monarchy that has ruled it for more than two hundred years. It has only produced a total of twenty The nine candidates who can become bureaucrats are candidates, so there are so few, so this itself is that the Chinese imperial system has very shallow roots there, so this actually laid a foreshadowing for subsequent changes. This is the first point and the second point. The point is that in their language they call it the Japanese rule, the Japanese rule. After the Meiji period, the next one is the Taisho Emperor. The Taisho Emperor vigorously promoted this constitutional government for a period, so this period is called the Taisho Democratic Period in this document, which is the promotion of democratic constitutionalism. It was not only a large-scale promotion of democratic constitutionalism in Japan. This also explains why Japan quickly became a Constitutionalism is because it has a foundation. This so-called foundation is what our language calls institutional genes. It has this institutional gene and has been cultivated. It is not strong enough, but it has already taken root there. Japan was promoting the Taisho democracy period, and a very basic principle was colonial localization. Many people hated this out of patriotism and nationalism, but It would be good if we leave nationalism and only look at democratic constitutionalism This news is great news for Taiwan, because the so-called colonial localization means that Taiwanese people can freely form a party and have the right to vote. So during the Taisho Democratic Period, when was this specifically the 1910s? By the 1920s, it took more than ten years to form a party in Taiwan. This is political parties. Political parties are for political power and to compete for political power. Local elections at all levels in Taiwan have already been conducted. So this is the system gene. Taiwanese people already know this. We talk about the system. I talked about the three elements. The three elements are this. Human rights, property rights, and political decision-making rights. So when these things were promoted in the Taisho democratic era, Taiwanese people already knew that they had this right. Ordinary people had this right. They already knew that they had this right. It is known that he has participated and done it, so for Taiwan, the roots of all subsequent changes have already taken root. The original Chinese imperial system was not deeply rooted. They did not worship the Chinese emperor that much, and then they came again at this time. If he does this, then he thinks I have the right to self-determination. The so-called Taiwan independence is actually a reflection of a certain right to self-determination. Whether you agree with Taiwan independence or not is another matter, but he thinks he can decide for himself. He has the right to self-determination of his own destiny, so this is actually a reflection of his human rights. This is the second institutional gene. The second is the change in the institutional gene. The third change in the institutional gene is, of course, I am careful here. I have to explain that later Emperor Taisho's time was very short, and then he became Emperor Showa, and then militarism came up. This assassination was actually a coup that allowed militarism to overwhelm Japan's constitutional government and turn Japan into fascist militarism. Well, this is such a paragraph. Of course, this was reflected in Taiwan, so when militarism came up Taiwan has also stopped developing in the direction of democratic constitutionalism. But once a person has this right and has experienced this right, once he realizes that he has this right, suppressing him will actually suppress him very much. Unless your generation dies, this generation will soon come back to life. After Japan surrendered, the Republic of China government went to Taiwan to take over. Then the time when the Republic of China government went to Taiwan to take over will soon be 19. When the Constitution of the Republic of China was adopted in 1946, then after the Constitution of the Republic of China was adopted, although it was difficult to implement this in the mainland because of the civil war going on in the mainland, it started in Taiwan. After it was implemented, the most critical thing in the implementation was the local elections, so they had already elected this, and then they started to implement it, and the election started again. Of course, everyone knows that it was after the February 28th Incident in Taiwan. Martial law is here again. Martial law is to stop the implementation of part of the constitution. But the point that needs to be emphasized here is that the first constitution of the Republic of China is The Constitution of the Republic of China recognizes comprehensive human rights. The Constitution of the Republic of China recognizes private property rights. The Constitution of the Republic of China recognizes people’s right to vote. This means that when we talk about the political decision-making power, according to the Constitution, this right is in the hands of the voters, so it is suspended. It is part of it, but its basic constitution has not changed. So in fact, although there is authoritarian suppression in Taiwan, local elections in Taiwan have never been It has never stopped, even during the so-called white terror period. Local elections have not stopped. Also, the protection of private property rights of private enterprises has never stopped. It has been developing since the Nationalist Government came to rule Taiwan. When it first came to it, it took Japanese companies and Japanese state-owned enterprises under the ownership of the National Government, but soon privatized them all, so it is very Very fast privatization, coupled with its constitutional protection and its legal system protection, made private ownership in Taiwan develop very, very quickly in the 1950s, not to mention that in the 1960s, In the 1990s, it was already an economy dominated by private ownership. So when we talk about the institutional genes of democratic constitutionalism, the institutional basis of democratic constitutionalism is Therefore, these two items are the most important. The first is the ubiquitous private property rights. The second is the ubiquitous civil society. Because the ubiquitous private property rights determine people’s awareness of rights and their rights. The ability of rights, because only he has property in his hands, he has the ability. People without property have no ability. They have no ability to protect themselves. Therefore, first, it is universal private property rights. It is the basis of democratic constitutionalism. The other one is the development of civil society. Of course, when Taiwan was an authoritarian system, it actually suppressed civil society in various ways. But after all, the constitutional principles of the Republic of China What will eventually become a democratic constitutional government is that no one can oppose democratic constitutional government in principle, so all its methods of suppressing civil society are just to find excuses. This is the same as the Communist Party. The difference is that the Communist Party can in principle eliminate civil society. Its basic principles, whether it is the Communist Party's Party Constitution or the Communist Party's Constitution, can ban you in principle. But in Taiwan, it does not have this principle and cannot ban you. That is to say, this is within the Kuomintang party. The forces that support civil society can exist and continue to exist. These people can be suppressed and even in the worst case, some people can be assassinated or kidnapped. But This is its basic principle. It is the principle of democratic constitutionalism. It is ultimately what it wants to achieve. So this is different from totalitarianism. This of course goes back to another issue, which is the difference between authoritarianism and totalitarianism. So what is Taiwan? Authoritarianism has no way to get rid of the system genes that ultimately lead to democratic constitutionalism. Because it is not a totalitarian system, there is no way to get rid of it. So just We have just talked about these three stages, which led to the development of its institutional genes. Then there is the external influence, which cannot be ignored. The external influence is because it is an ally of the United States. As an ally of the United States, the United States We have always been here to prevent the excessive development of authoritarianism. We have always hoped that it could become a democratic constitutional government as soon as possible. There is this pressure, and there is pressure from the outside. Let me be more specific. It's more abstract and more specific, it includes the assassination incident that happened for the biography of Chiang Ching-kuo. After the assassination, the United States put a lot of pressure on them. So under the pressure, the Jiangnan case, right? Under pressure, the descendants of the Chiang family were forced to leave Taiwan's political circles. It was due to pressure from the United States that the descendants of the Chiang family were forced to leave Taiwan. Taiwan's departure from Taiwan's political circles certainly helped him, making it difficult for his authoritarianism to continue. Another aspect is that Taiwan and South Korea are very similar. They are both fostered by authoritarian systems. A large number of the institutional genes of this democratic constitutional system have been cultivated in society. There is great pressure from society, and at the same time, there is also pressure from the United States. The United States simply has a large number of troops stationed in South Korea. In this context, the famous Gwangju incident occurred in South Korea, and the Gwangju incident was caused by migrant workers and citizens who wanted to promote democratic constitutionalism and came to fight against authoritarian rule. There was bloodshed and one or two hundred people died. So in this context, it was this Roh Tae-woo who campaigned during the 1987 election campaign. With this slogan, he wants to overturn the verdict for this and that matter. In fact, he himself was the one involved in that incident. Then he said that after he takes office, he will turn South Korea into a democratic constitutional government. This pressure is particularly great because everyone is discussing the changes in Taiwan. We often don’t look at this thing. This was Roh Tae-woo’s work before Chiang Ching-kuo’s decision. Roh Tae-woo should be regarded as Chiang Ching-kuo. He is Chiang Ching-kuo and has lived through a lot of things in the past. The bad things of authoritarianism are his fault, but now he says that if I come to power, I will change, then the pressure will be great. So the problem that Taiwan will face immediately is that there is already strong social pressure in Taiwan, and there is already strong institutional genetic requirements in Taiwan. Pushing in the direction of democratic constitutionalism. In this context, Taiwan and South Korea are the same. If you don’t change, what will happen if these people take to the streets? Do you want to kill people? You have already seen that South Korea kills people. The result of using killing is reversed. The reason why it is useless to kill and reversed is because it is an authoritarian system and it has no ability. It is impossible to get rid of all the genes of this democratic constitutional government. So the Communist Party can They couldn't get rid of it. So in this case, Chiang Ching-kuo made a correct decision. In fact, he learned from Roh Tae-woo. So when he said that I lifted the party ban and newspaper ban, he acted first. In fact, it was Roh Tae-woo who did it first in Korea, then in Taiwan, and he followed his pattern. Of course, he was about to die of the disease, and it was a fatal disease. He himself knew about it, so that’s why there was the whole behind. The whole behind is the real behind. It was Lee Teng-hui who played a particularly important role, and this Lee Teng-hui was a local Kuomintang cadre in Taiwan. This was actually decisive and important. Lee Teng-hui had been consciously supporting Taiwan in the Kuomintang. The local Kuomintang cadres asked them to come up, and all of this helped Taiwan 's peaceful transformation. This made a large number of conservative forces in the Kuomintang come from the mainland, and the people he supported were not so conservative, so they added The more important thing is social pressure. When looking at the changes in Taiwan, everyone should look at the social pressure side of Taiwan instead of simply looking at it. One or two political strongmen in Taiwan are either Chiang Ching-kuo or Lee Teng-hui. In fact, they have this social pressure, which is a necessary condition for him. For example, Lee Teng-hui, even if you assume that Lee Teng-hui has the intention to promote democratic constitutionalism, assuming that If you make a bold assumption, the problem you will encounter immediately is that Lee Teng-hui will also encounter resistance within the party. The resistance within the party is huge. How will he be able to resist the pressure within the party? In fact, without this social pressure, Lee Teng-hui would not be able to resist the pressure within the party. Even if he wanted to establish democratic constitutionalism, he would use the huge pressure from society to deal with the pressure within the party. Assuming that he wanted to do so, another explanation is: He does not have a strong desire. His desire is to follow public opinion. As a politician, a politician follows public opinion. Just like the British monarch, he also wants to follow public opinion. Therefore, the British monarch follows the same trend. The policies of the political and democratic system are almost the same. They have to act according to this public opinion because the people have already done so. This is why we emphasize the institutional gene. Public opinion is the institutional gene. You can call it culture. You can call it culture if you call it culture. But this culture is It's not about eating, it's not about wearing clothes, it's not about dancing, it's about people fighting for their basic rights, so if we understand it from this perspective, we can see that Taiwan's institutional transformation is indeed closely related to the basic difference between its institutional genes and the mainland. Where does the incentive mechanism of slaves come from? They rely on whips, right? Why can't a slave society develop? Because people can't be whipped. People who can invent can't create under the whip. People under the whip can't think of ways to solve problems. To solve problems and create people, they must be free. South Korea's civil society is very developed. Even the opposition parties are better than this Taiwan. Bay needs to strengthen trade unions, then student unions, and various non-governmental organizations. Before the end of World War II, all aspects of the rule of the Kingdom of Korea were modeled after the Chinese imperial system. There was a very important background behind the Soviet Union’s support of the Korean Communist Party, and this was that its main body was the main body of their personnel. The main body of cadres and the main body of the military come from the Chinese Communist Party in South Korea. I don’t have time to really discuss it. I will discuss the situation in South Korea very, very briefly. In fact, it was because at the end of World War II, the 38th parallel was divided into two halves, the north and the south, according to the Yalta Agreement. So as early as that time, in the south, the people who came back from the United States were consciously in power. This is pushed in the direction of democratic constitutionalism. The north is ruled by the Communist Party. It is deliberately pushed in the direction of the Communist Party. Then we come back and look at the institutional genes of the entire Korean Peninsula. What we are chasing is the past. It was South Korea before the end of World War II. To a large extent, it was a bit like China. It was its own kingdom for a long time, and its rule in all aspects of this kingdom was modeled on the Chinese imperial system. Even its laws and so on are all learned from the Chinese imperial system, and its operation methods are also learned from the past. From a very rough look, you can think that this is it. A considerable part of the Chinese imperial system has a similar institutional gene, which is that it does not allow the existence of independent social forces, nor does it allow the existence of independent intellectual groups. For example, the Donglin Party, the Donglin Party, was the leader of the Sino-Japanese War of 1894-1899. The reason is that the Donglin Party is the so-called Donglin Party. It is not the concept of the party today at all, and it has nothing to do with the armed forces. It is just a group of Confucian scholars. This, but it is not allowed, is very different from the mainland. It is discussed in Japan. One thing that is very different from the mainland is that Christianity has entered the Korean Peninsula, and Christianity has developed greatly in the Korean Peninsula, but it has never been in the mainland. Christianity has not opened up the situation. Christianity has been the Jesuits since the Ming Dynasty. From the time they came in the Ming Dynasty until the Communist Party drove them away, the Jesuits have been in China for several years. For hundreds of years, it has never been able to open up the situation. It is the Jesuits in China. The Jesuits are Catholic. The Catholic Church has always been under official control in China. It was strictly controlled by the imperial court, not to mention the Communist Party. The only relatively loose period was the Republic of China period, which was after the Revolution of 1911. However, Christianity still spread very narrowly in China. There are only a small number of people, but Christianity has a great influence on the Korean Peninsula. This has an important influence on the subsequent changes in South Korea. When we talk about institutional genes, it has to play a role in it. Maybe I will talk about it later. I need to explain again, because last time we talked about the origin of totalitarianism, we mentioned Christianity, so I need to clarify what is the relationship between Christianity and the democratic constitutional Christ. What is the relationship between religion and totalitarianism needs to be specifically clarified, but when it comes to South Korea, this is an important part of it. Then it was Japanese rule. Japanese rule was the Taisho democratic period. Taiwan promoted this democratic constitutional government, and the same is true for South Korea. Because as a matter of localization, Korea has always been closer to Japan, which is an important part of the promotion of Japanese localization, so this is all originally It had a great impact in South Korea, and then after the end of World War II, the regime entered in the south. The regime that entered in the south was established in accordance with the democratic constitutional government. Although it is quite fragile, one of the fragile backgrounds is that we just now Speaking of the institutional genes passed down from the Chinese imperial system, this institutional gene determines that the political power that can be generated immediately is authoritarian. The Chinese imperial system is an An authoritarian system is not a totalitarian system. This is also an important issue that needs to be clarified. It is not a totalitarian system. So in South Korea, although there is pressure from the United States, although these people studied in the United States, they are exiles from the United States. A whole group came from the United States and then established a regime in South Korea, but its system-level genes determined its era. In fact, it established a democratic constitutional government and it was like this. The first is that the conditions are immature, that is, there is not enough social pressure, there is not enough social force to promote, and there is no overall organization of the civil society. This strong force forces the government to go in this direction, and there is no democratic constitution. The pressure from civil society is impossible. It is based on democratic constitutionalism, but in fact it is an authoritarian rule. Of course, when it comes to details, there will be some kind of coup, etc. Waiting for this to actually happen, the coup itself has something to do with the genes of our system, which is why it will happen. Because you don’t have a strong social consensus that soldiers cannot engage in political affairs. For example, the United Kingdom has never been in this glorious country. Since the revolution, there have never been any signs of it, so let’s say it never happened. Without such signs, no soldier will be charged with this matter and have never been prosecuted. This phenomenon has never happened because it has a strong social consensus. If you think of it, there is not even a written word in the constitution. It has never said that soldiers cannot interfere in politics. But this is the social consensus that is generally formed in the military. The social consensus in the military is No general can ask for political advice. That is, if you are a general asking for political advice, then soldiers must obey orders. As long as you ask for political advice, no one will obey, so no People's Liberation Army is willing to do this. Then the United States will be just as beautiful. Since the founding of the country, it has never happened. The United Kingdom and the United States have been the strongest military in the world since the founding of the United States. The United States has been the strongest military in the world since World War II. These two have been the strongest military in the world for hundreds of years. But this army has always been Apolitical means that it will not interfere with domestic politics, that is, whether you agree or disagree, it has nothing to do with politics. Then this is the social consensus. Although your constitution states that military personnel must be subject to civil Britain, which is run by officials, does not have such a constitution, but it is useless if you write a constitution. In South Korea, the constitution was originally written, but the soldiers could overthrow it. It is because whether the soldiers obey your orders or not determines whether you can Manipulating this group of soldiers to ask political questions has happened several times in South Korea. This military coup is various forms of military coup. This is what we call the institutional gene, which is your institutional gene decision. Determine whether your soldiers will follow the generals with political ambitions to overthrow the existing regime. Then these are discussed, that is, why the authoritarian regime in South Korea has such a long period in front of it and is so directly related to it. Institutional genes are related. So why did it later become a democratic society? It is directly connected with the great development of its institutional genes in terms of democratic constitutionalism. So the most important thing about this great development is There are two. The first is the ubiquitous private property rights. Although South Korea is under an authoritarian political system, its authoritarian politics has never tried to regain the property rights scattered among the people. It is not the Communist Party, and it has no The ability has become this oligopoly, which comprehensively controls the Korean economy, so it is the universal free property rights that exist in the entire economy, and the other is the public Civil society in South Korea is very developed, that is, it was transformed into a democratic constitutional government long before the establishment of a democratic constitutional government. The civil society was very developed before the establishment of a democratic constitutional government. The opposition parties are stronger than those in Taiwan, and then the labor unions, student unions, various civil organizations, and so on. The Christianity we mentioned earlier is the Christian church, which has always had a considerable influence in South Korea. So the development of civil society is closely related to the Christian church. It is closely related because in fact, for a secular society, the religious church itself is a civil organization. So when we talk about civil organizations, it is civil society. A very important part of civil society is various churches. Of course, here What needs to be emphasized is that what we are talking about now is a secular society. Secular society means that it is not ruled by religion, but once religious rule, the situation will change, such as in Iraq. Lang Iran, it is the unity of politics and religion. Then after the unity of politics and religion, it will be Shia. The Muslim is Shia. This Muslim will suppress the other sect, Sunni. Muslims will suppress the Catholic Church, suppress this Christian church, suppress this Judaism. So At that time, the church was no longer a civil society. The church became part of the government. So when it goes to the extreme, it becomes totalitarian. This is how religion works in a secular society. It is a very important part of civil society, so this is the explanation for South Korea, and North Korea is because since the end of World War II, it has been ruled by the Communist Party of Korea supported by the Soviet Union, and there are people behind the Communist Party of Korea supported by the Soviet Union. A very important background is that the main body of it is their personnel, the main body of cadres and the main body of the military come from the Communist Party of China. They are theirs. The most elite core of military power was a part of the Chinese People's Liberation Army in the early days, so this is very important. That is to say, the institutional genes of North Korea are very close to mainland China to a very large extent. The institutional genes of this, coupled with the external influence, including the influence exerted by the Soviet Union and China at the same time, make it the institutional genes of totalitarian communism. In that place, the longer it grows, the stronger it becomes, and the stronger it becomes, and it will continue to strengthen. Of course, the first step is the Korean War. The Korean War is for the army of the Chinese Communist Party to help the army of the North Korean Communist Party to fight. At the same time, it also helps. Then North Korea's system construction was also influenced by China to a very large extent in this early period. So China said that before the Great Leap Forward, China's system It is basically a copy of the Soviet system, so this is actually the North Korea. It was more influenced by China at that time. North Korea learned the Soviet system more from China because they had a large number of party members and cadres. The cadres of the army who came from the Communist Party of China came from the Communist Party of China. This is why when I heard this, your cases in these countries today are particularly important. So one question I heard is If you interpret institutional genes as a lesion, how long do these genes have to exist before they stimulate the emergence of a certain institution? Because now I hear it is a bit reversed, that is, we use the results and we have used the results. To explain this process, there is a question. At what point do these genes become a key point, leading a country to move toward democratic constitutionalism or toward totalitarianism? This is what it is like for us. Because this is science. Science means that you need this. You need this thing that has already existed in history. Then you look at what has already existed in history. Then you use a theory to explain what has happened in history. The thing is, if we look at what has happened in history, we can actually see that there have been many times in history where people have tried to change the system. People have consciously tried to change the system. When it comes to the most famous major examples in modern times, such as Afghanistan and Iraq, people like to talk about why Japan became a democratic constitutional government after the war. People often like to say that it was because of the US occupation and then because of the US occupation. People also like to talk about Taiwan and South Korea because of the occupation of the United States. Taiwan is not an occupation, but the United States has a great influence there, but it is Iraq. Afghanistan is a very good counterexample. The United States also relied on military force to occupy that place and then supported its regime there and helped its regime. When these regimes were established, they were based on the principles of democratic constitutionalism. In these countries, they are all required Those who want them to elect will then establish a parliament. However, in Afghanistan and Iraq, the United States spent far more power and time than it did in Japan and Japan. South Korea has produced results, so we have to count them as producing results. The results are far more than that, but it has failed. The reason is that the reason for the institutional gene is that when it does not exist, it is your human power to establish it. The system cannot be established. In fact, the same is true in South Korea. South Korea also tried to establish it at the beginning, and it was already established at the beginning. After it was established, a military coup occurred. If it is overthrown, it will be overthrown. The United States will have no choice but to do so because North Korea and China posed a great threat to it at that time, so it treated it as its military government. When its army overthrew this constitutional regime, it had to support it in case North Korea came over. South Korea's military, but South Korea's military has controlled its regime, so it has no way at all. Then you, this is what you can see, Japan does not have such power to overthrow its regime. Of course, first of all, it is because during the war, Japan's military power has been destroyed. Secondly, Japan already has a very strong institutional gene. This institutional gene has always been against Japanese militarism. This does not mean that the Japanese have always supported Japan. Even when militarism and nationalism were strong, the power of Japan's constitutional government has always existed in the country, and it is quite powerful. This is the system. Gene, then there is another modern example of this. In the 1960s, when Africa gained independence, there was a very optimistic mood in the entire Western world, believing that Africa would be a model for the world. It is the biggest driving force for economic development in the world because suddenly the entire continent has gained independence from a large number of political, legal and economic people in the West. They all went there to support them, and the government of this Western country paid a lot of money, and the United Nations also paid money, and groups of people were sent there in an organized manner to support them in establishing a democratic and constitutional system, but they basically failed. The reason for this failure is that in When such a system gene has not been formed in that place, you go to artificially build this system. What system you build is just written in black and white. The law is written in black and white. The various laws written in black and white in the Constitution then built an office called this court, built an office called this parliament, built an office called the president, and then there is a form called elections. But as long as your institutional genes have not yet been formed, this society Citizens have no awareness of their own interests. What are their rights? What should they do to protect their rights? There is no civil society to protect themselves. At that time, various political coups took place one after another, and then they fought with each other, whether it was civil war, foreign war, or fighting in a mess. This is why Africa is poor. People often say that the simple explanation for why Africa is poor is that it originated from the colonies. is the focus of the reasons, but this itself is not so straightforward. The colonial reasons are actually the reasons that actually caused that place to destroy themselves during the colonial period. The civil society has destroyed the property rights of ordinary citizens. It has destroyed the civil society of ordinary citizens. Without a civil society, no universal property rights, and no citizen consciousness, the constitutional system cannot be developed in that place. So this is the institutional gene to help us understand this. From a world perspective, we understand that this institutional gene is really some specific necessary conditions and some external ones, whether it is the influence of external countries or certain The introduction of an ideological system and ideology must collide with the original conditions of these existing genes, so it becomes it. It does not mean that when this gene is cultivated, the country will definitely be what it is. We talked about the system. What is the system? We talked about what the system is earlier. The system is the most stable and basic mechanism that determines people's incentives. It is the most stable and most basic mechanism that coordinates people's incentives. I talked about the basic mechanism very abstractly. What does it mean specifically? I also said that the system has several basic components. The basic components are human rights, property rights, political decision-making power, and political decision-making power. So put these things together. What does this mean? The so-called society is made up of people. Do people have their own consciousness to decide what they want to do? This is when people in general in society do not have basic rights and all people in society are ruled by others. Well, this rule must be to oppress these people. Then you, you, you finally change this system. What is its incentive mechanism? Its incentive mechanism is that it will use this violent method and repressive method to solve its incentives. The problem is because the problem of incentives will always exist. In any society, there will be slave societies. In slave societies, there will be incentives for slaves. Where does the incentive mechanism come from, relying on whipping, right? Then why is it impossible for a slave society to develop? Because people under the whip will not invent. People under the whip will not create. People under the whip will not think of ways to solve problems. To solve problems and create, people must be free. Only a free society is possible. This is why the development of the entire human society suddenly exploded. Science has produced technology, there has been an industrial revolution, there have been huge and major developments, so many inventions and creations, all without exception, have been produced in countries with democratic constitutionalism. What is the truth? It is not simply called institutional determinism, but because people must have Freedom can only be invented by free people in a free society. So what is your incentive mechanism? Relying on violent incentive mechanism, relying on oppression, relying on threats. Under this incentive mechanism, this is called a system. This system means that people do not invent or create, so they are not developed. So this is this, which is back to the most basic of all problems. The place has gone, and this so-called institutional gene refers to the fact that these are the conditions of people in this society. What is our status and what is people's social consensus? So what is the status? The simplest, most abstract, simplest and most important description is how property rights are distributed, how political power is distributed, whether people have basic rights or not, right? Whether those who are protected are respected or not, these things basically determine what people want. What the institutional gene actually means is what people want to do in this most basic structure. This refers to the fact that now Chinese people have a large number of basic ideologies and basic cognition of society. The cognition of society is Leninist China. People don’t know that Chinese people mistakenly think that this is China. In fact, this is very troublesome. At that time, it was actually Chinese The totalitarian system has degenerated in the direction of authoritarianism and has taken several steps and then returned. You said that you killed all the red second generations. You violated the red second generation as a social elite. You violated This is his interest, right? During the epidemic, many communities were able to organize themselves to resist excessive nucleic acid testing. This is civil society. This is when citizens collectively find their own strength. One of the most basic concepts is who is the government? The government is raised by us. If you explain the entire system clearly, the system gene will be very clear. Yes, yes, it actually describes the following three things about this system. The most basic state and conditions of this society are related to human rights and property rights politics. These two things determine the state of this society. Yes, you see, in this democratic society, in political science, in social science and economics, people do not simply use the word rights. So when people discuss When it comes to political decision-making power, this common term is called collective decision-making power. The question of deciding collective decision-making is about the collective. What collective means is that in a democratic and constitutional society, everyone has their own property rights and everyone makes their own decisions. All personal matters and family matters are yours, and they are completely your own business. It has nothing to do with others and cannot be interfered with by others, but it will definitely still exist after transcending individuals and families, for example, ours A community's problem, then we have a city's problem, a town's problem, the city's problem is as big as a country's problem, that is a collective problem, so how to make decisions on collective issues, since the rights are in the hands of individuals, then when we come together, we all What should we do about that matter? For example, the road in front of us is called a private road. The so-called private roads are actually jointly owned by many of our families. What should we do? This is a collective decision-making problem. If this road belongs to this city, then it becomes this. In fact, the city is also collective, because this city is supported by our collective taxes. It is this basic concept. Why is it called the government? Government revenue is called taxpayers’ money. This sentence is actually the most basic concept. Who is the government? The government is supported by us and we pay for it. So the government’s decision-making is actually what we do and how we do it. We pass it through our parliamentarians. We pass it through our This is how voting is done, so in the end those people are actually working for us, but they are just making collective decisions. When the scale of the problem becomes large enough, it actually cannot be solved by politicians alone. In fact, these people we directly elect do not have enough ability, so they have to establish some specialized agencies. This is called a bureaucracy. Once a bureaucracy is created, the bureaucracy will have its own powers. The bureaucracy generates its own power, but the power of the bureaucracy actually conflicts with the rights of every citizen. Is this right in this place power or rights? Because you repeatedly said this, I actually listened to it for a long time. It’s the relationship between rights and power. This is what’s wrong with the Chinese language. It’s the Chinese language. What is rights and what is power? You can't tell the difference using the sound. So what you just said is rarely discussed about collective rights. In fact, there is no so-called collective rights. It is like this. Dangdang us. When we talk about political power, we mean political When we talk about individual, power means rights. It is something that we are born with. Yes, power is not something we are born with. So what you just said is very clear. When it comes to individuals, this is rights, interests, and benefits. That is to say, These are the benefits that I should have naturally, yes, yes, and I actually have them. Because I actually have them, I have power. I have the strength to explain why we emphasize civil society. Civil society actually means that all citizens have their own rights, and then we work together to solve our collective problems for our own benefit, forming a collective collective foundation for us. Together they become power, so this citizen is an ordinary person. How can we form our politics? The formation of political power by strength and power is actually nothing more than two things. One is relying on votes and the election of members. Ballots can be fair. Policies are determined directly through referendums. The other method is indirect election of members. Let’s do this. In fact, this is just one aspect of your power. The other side of your power is civil society. Civil society includes labor unions, women's organizations, student organizations, community organizations, and then our community's collective problems collectively form a force. For example, a big company wants to build a well in our area. Our community thinks that mining is going to harm our interests, so our community comes together and it becomes a political issue. With our strength, we can oppose it. Many people may think that this matter seems small and insignificant. It is only their local matter, but in fact this is democratic constitutionalism. The basis is whether there is or not. This is the basis of democratic constitutionalism. This is why when we talk about When looking at the current situation in China, many people are very pessimistic about China, but China is not as pessimistic as people think. For example, during the epidemic, many communities were able to organize themselves to resist excessive nucleic acid testing. This is civil society, and this is how citizens have collectively found themselves. The strength of civil society lies in this kind of practice. In fact, the necessary step for China to move towards democratic constitutionalism is that it must have this foundation. Citizens must be able to organize themselves. Communities can organize students and workers can organize themselves. Women can organize any citizen groups themselves. Only if they can organize this society for their own interests What can become a democratic constitutional government is these first, not democratic constitutional government. Without these, democratic constitutional government will never be realized. This brings us to the two key issues. The subtitle of your book "Institutional Genes" talks about totalitarianism in China. Socialist system, so we just talked about the system and the system gene. Now let’s look at why this Theory is so important for studying China's system or studying China's totalitarianism. This is a big question. I know it is a big question, but you just said repeatedly that I am actually thinking about the specific problems in China now. Before you start, I want to ask, yes, it is also very important. At the moment, because I know that you accept interviews with the media every day, it is actually very difficult. Many people are asking you to explain the present, but in fact everyone wants you to make predictions and want to ask you. If you now say that China is a totalitarian society and the totalitarian genes are so clearly present, then do you mean that you are talking about China? Now you are in despair. You will never reach democratic constitutionalism. Or do you actually want to use it? Once we understand these institutional genes, we will know what conditions are needed to achieve democratic constitutionalism. The actual purpose is to analyze how this society evolves and analyze the conditions for social evolution. Then when we discuss China as a totalitarian system How could it evolve into this democratic constitutional government? Then we must first analyze clearly what institutional genes are needed to evolve into a democratic constitutional system. The institutional genes it needs are, at the very least, a necessary condition but not a sufficient condition. Its necessary condition is that it needs to have this widespread existence. Private property rights and widespread citizenship Of course, these things about society, what I’m talking about now is building a democratic and constitutional society. What I’m talking about now is not changing from totalitarianism to authoritarianism, which are two different things. What does totalitarianism change into authoritarianism mean? It means the collapse of maximalism. It will not collapse. Whether it can become a democratic constitutional government must have the conditions just mentioned This cannot be changed. For example, the best examples are Russia and Belarus. The best and most prominent examples are Russia and Belarus. Why did the three Baltic countries now have democratic constitutions after the disintegration of the former Soviet Union? Then the three Baltic countries are not only Democracy and constitutional government are now developed Economically speaking, all countries are developed countries, but none of these countries that have not become democratic constitutional governments can become developed countries. In fact, they are all connected together, the institutional genes of the Baltic countries and the original institutional genes of other countries in the former Soviet Union. is not the same as the Baltic countries used to be if we Going back in history, as early as the late Middle Ages, before entering modern society, there was a country called Poland and the Federal Republic of Lithuania. They had different names, but the general idea was that they were a federation. They were a federal republic. The country is not a republic but is called Poland. The Federation of Lithuania. Why do I mention this? This is very important. This is an important part of the institutional gene. The Federation of Poland and Lithuania was the Poland at that time. The territory was very large, so it was a considerable part of the Baltic Sea. Now it is a considerable part or even all of the three Baltic Sea countries. quite a bit of uke A considerable part of Lanzhou and other countries are actually in this territory. Then we have to care about how the Polish-Lithuanian federation operated as a parliamentary system at that time. The parliamentary system was not today's modern constitutional system, but its institutional genes are very important. Let’s just say that at that time, although they were this certain It is a monarchy in this sense, but its monarchy is an elite constitutionalism. Elite constitutionalism. What does elite constitutionalism mean? It does not have a hereditary king. Its king is collectively elected by the aristocracy and voted. Then the parliament operates with the power of the parliament. It's the biggest, it's very important, it's the institutional gene, it's from that place Hundreds of years ago, people believed that my rule depends on parliament and my rule depends on voting. So if you don’t do this to me, I won’t agree and I will oppose it. So this is the way it is in their bones and their history, so we talk about Social consensus This social consensus is that at least the social elite has long believed that our rule is not Someone can hereditarily rule us. The person who rules is chosen by us. At least the person I choose must be smart. And at least the person chosen must take care of our interests. Although it is not the interests of everyone, at least the interests of the social elite. You have to take care of them, not your own, right? You said that if you kill all the red second generation, you have violated the red second generation as the social elite. This is his interest, right? You can't violate the interests of so many people. Even the interests of the second generation of red people are violated. Then he is their Lithuanian, Polish-Lithuanian family. In ancient times, they couldn't violate it, right? This is the gene of the system, and then it is It is in the process of its subsequent development that the institutional genes of democratic constitutionalism we just mentioned have already developed considerably in these places. This is something that can be traced in history. Then it was forcibly incorporated into the Soviet Union quite late, so this is decisive. Let me pour some water on you. So you are like this, with this kind of institutional gene, this is what the whole society has. A strong social consensus requires the establishment of a constitutional system. In this case, no one is a strongman, just like Putin. You are in Poland, you are in Lithuania, and you are in the three Baltic countries. People will not admit that someone is a strongman who can rule us like this. But Russia is different. Russia has this. Just now I emphasized that it has this. It does not have this institutional gene, so the Communist Party can collapse. After the Communist Party collapses, it builds an authoritarian system. Democracy is not a democracy, so when we talk about China, China is a totalitarian system. Will the totalitarian system collapse? It is relatively easy to change to an authoritarian system after it collapses. For example, if a major political change occurs, there are various possibilities, or some enlightened person, etc. , etc. This is why I am talking about this. The most difficult reason is because this totalitarian system is based on ideology But this communist ideology is already very weak in China. So the first thing China relies on to maintain the totalitarian system is Leninist ideology. What I mean is Leninist ideology. What I mean is not It’s entirely that part of communism but the Communist Party That part of Leninism is about the ideology of the Communist Party. Now the Chinese people have a lot of basic understanding of this ideology. The basic understanding of society is Leninism. The Chinese people don’t know that the Chinese people mistakenly think that it is China. It’s very troublesome because under this ideology you The totalitarian system will be maintained because the ideology of Leninism is extremist, but many Chinese people do not know one of the specific examples, such as the dictatorship of the proletariat. Needless to say, democratic centralism, democratic centralism is the fundamental concept of Leninism. It was not invented by the Chinese Communist Party but came from outside. Then this party leads everything. This is a concept of totalitarianism. This is something invented by Lenin. Then this party is not allowed to exist. It is not allowed to exist internally. The party does not allow other parties to exist. This is all totalitarian ideology. This is ideology. This is not simply about this, it is ideology that determines this. Because of this, any political party in political science is not like this. Only the Leninist Party is like this, then the Fascist Party is like this, the Nazi Party is like this, and then all political parties are not like this, even if it is authoritarian. There is no totalitarianism in Russia today There are several parties in Russia, but they can use the secret agent assassination method to damage others and put people in jail. But those parties all exist legally, and there are also legally existing opposition parties. They have parties and publications about them. It has business so it's not a totalitarian system but you're Under the rule of authoritarianism, parties are not allowed within the party, right? If you red generation people want to get together and discuss things, then you are already anti-party, you are anti-party group, so he does not use this word today. He used anti-corruption laws to punish you. This is the characteristic of this totalitarian party, right? And then Any of your so-called democratic parties are all funded by the budget of the Communist Party of China. Then the Communist Party of China decides who your leader is. The Communist Party of China decides what your budget is. This is a typical way of operating totalitarianism, because your parties all It’s not a party, because your party only has Competition is only a competition for power. If the party has nothing to do with power, it is not a party. So this is not the case. Even the leaders of your party are decided by the CCP. For example, the budget is decided by the CCP. Of course you are not a party. You belong to the Communist Party. This appendage, this is what the totalitarian system does As I said just now, the communist ideology in China is relatively weak. When the communist ideology is weak, it is actually not conducive to totalitarian rule. However, there is a danger here that the totalitarian rule will continue. There is a danger. This danger is that it transforms communist ideology into nationalist ideology. The danger is very great. Then after it transforms communist ideology into nationalist ideology, totalitarianism can continue. And it will be very strong, which is very dangerous, but if its nationalism is not strong enough It cannot replace the weakened communist ideology, so it is easier for totalitarian rule like this to become corrupt. My corruption is not the corruption of China’s anti-corruption. My corruption refers to the degradation of this system, which is the degradation of this system. It will Nothing is as strong as totalitarianism If hard totalitarianism is so complete, it will degenerate towards authoritarianism. In fact, ten years ago, I invented a concept called China's system an authoritarian system. I called it local distribution. The reason for the authoritarian system of power was that China was actually totalitarian at that time. The socialist system has degenerated in the direction of authoritarianism and has taken several steps and then returned. Hey, this degeneration can still happen again because China already has so many private enterprises and because China already has a lot of citizens. Since China once had a relatively limited society, These diverse ideas have actually degenerated towards authoritarianism. If it degenerates towards authoritarianism, then when civil society continues to develop and private property rights continue to develop, then China will transform from an authoritarian system. conditions for the establishment of a democratic constitutional government
