Timestamp: 2026-01-07T12:17:29.213761
Title: 布兰登比格斯 - 1月3日 未来三年 BV1J3ikBkER4
URL: https://b23.tv/wqXNYml
Status: success
Duration: 1:09:40

Description:
好的，这是对所提供文本的分析、总结和可视化。

### **内容概要及核心思想**

#### **I. 演讲者定位与核心使命**
*   **身份定位：** 自视为“守望者”(Watchman)，而非传统的“先知”，职责是站在城墙上警告即将到来的事。
*   **核心使命：** 响应上帝的呼召，建立一支“百万祷告大军”(a million men and women prayer army)，通过集体祷告来改变国家和世界局势。
*   **信息来源：** 强调所有看见的异象和信息均直接来自圣灵，个人只是一个传递信息的卑微器皿（“瓦器里的宝贝”）。

#### **II. 已应验的预言（作为验证）**
*   **委内瑞拉：** 预言总统马杜罗(Maduro)将被推翻，美国将军事介入并建立一个亲美的“傀儡政府”，并声称这正在发生。
*   **伊朗：** 预言伊朗将爆发大规模的民众起义，旨在推翻现有政权，为一场属灵大复兴铺平道路。
*   **巴西：** 提到巴西正在经历一场巨大的属灵复兴，有超过14,000人同时接受洗礼，印证了他之前关于南美复兴的预言。

#### **III. 未来的重大警告**
*   **美国国内：**
    *   纽约将出现一位被魔鬼“预备”的、“新奥巴马”式的共产主义领袖。
    *   美国将遭遇某种重创（可能是网络攻击或内部事件），导致其无力协防台湾。
    *   美国本土将面临“赤色黎明”(Red Dawn)式的渗透与攻击，敌人已通过边境潜入。
*   **全球性灾难：**
    *   一场由人工智能(AI)生成的大瘟疫将在2027年底至2028年间爆发，比新冠病毒猛烈得多，可能导致超过3亿人死亡。
    *   太平洋板块将有剧烈的火山与地震活动，引发海啸。
*   **地缘政治危机：**
    *   中国将在美国分心之际，于三日内迅速占领台湾。
    *   乌克兰总统泽连斯基(Zelinsky)将被内部势力清除。
    *   以色列将面临比“10月7日袭击”更严峻的攻击。

#### **IV. 未来的盼望与复兴**
*   **全球复兴浪潮：** 独裁国家如委内瑞拉、伊朗、朝鲜将会被神解放，并爆发前所未有的属灵大复兴。
*   **“硬币的两面”：** 世界将同时进入“黑暗愈暗，光明愈亮”的时期。一方面是战争、瘟疫和动荡；另一方面是神荣耀的、史上最大规模的作为和复兴。信徒需要选择将焦点放在哪一面。
*   **教会的洁净与更新：** 许多知名的“大型教会牧师”将突然“退休”或“辞职”，为神兴起的新一代领袖（“大卫”）让路。

### **核心观点（一句话总结）**
世界正进入一个黑暗与光明激烈交织的决定性时期，信徒必须通过警醒祷告来积极应对挑战，并见证即将到来的全球性属灵大复兴。

### **内容的总體框架**
这是一个基于 **灵恩派/先知性基督教末世论 (Charismatic/Prophetic Christian Eschatology)** 的框架。该框架认为，世界大事是上帝与撒旦势力之间属灵争战的体现，当前发生的政治动荡、自然灾害等是耶稣基督即将再来的“时代迹象”(Signs of the Times)。在此背景下，信徒不应被动等待，而应被呼召成为“祷告的军队”，通过属灵争战积极介入并影响世界格局，同时预备迎接一场史无前例的全球大复兴。

### **核心概念图**
<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    A["圣灵的启示 (Divine Revelation)"] --> B["守望者的信息 (The Watchman's Message)"];

    subgraph "世界现状：硬币的两面 (The Two-Sided Coin)"
        direction TB
        B --> C{"黑暗加剧 vs. 光明更亮"};
    end

    subgraph "未来的警告 (黑暗面)"
        direction LR
        D1["大瘟疫 (Plague)"];
        D2["战争与入侵 (Wars & Invasions)"];
        D3["政治动荡 (Political Turmoil)"];
        D4["经济/自然界震动 (Shakings)"];
    end

    subgraph "未来的盼望 (光明面)"
        direction LR
        E1["全球属灵大复兴 (Global Revival)"];
        E2["神迹奇事 (Miracles)"];
        E3["独裁政权瓦解 (Fall of Dictators)"];
        E4["教会更新 (Church Renewal)"];
    end

    C --> D1;
    C --> D2;
    C --> D3;
    C --> D4;
    C --> E1;
    C --> E2;
    C --> E3;
    C --> E4;

    B --> F["核心呼召 (The Core Calling)"];

    subgraph "信徒的行动 (The Believer's Action)"
        direction TB
        F -- "响应" --> G["建立百万祷告大军"];
        G -- "目的" --> H["影响世界格局"];
        H -- "聚焦" --> E1;
    end

    style A fill:#F9F7D8,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#333;
    style B fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#333;
    style C fill:#FFFFCC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style D1 fill:#FFB6C1,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style D2 fill:#FFB6C1,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style D3 fill:#FFB6C1,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style D4 fill:#FFB6C1,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style E1 fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style E2 fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style E3 fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style E4 fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style F fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#333;
    style G fill:#B2DFDB,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style H fill:#B2DFDB,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;

</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
Well, we can go ahead get started If you want I I usually wait for a thousand to hit but I know I'm really early in the morning For a lot of you in America so But I've been up all night praying and I waited to do this video because the Lord said Brandon I I want you to not do live stream tonight There's things that are about to take place that I want you to go on later So I told Brayton I said let's wait So we stayed up and I waited for what the Lord was saying was coming and we saw what it was Isn't Jesus wonderful accuracy is important We ready Well Well, good morning family. Thank you for joining us so early We have a lot to talk about All this in the news and all that's going on that that has happened We know That this was coming didn't we because of what the Holy Spirit had warned us about I Don't know the whole How big the capacity of this is or what what? what I Mean for all that I see on the Twitter. I mean on the exit. It's quite a bit isn't it? First off I want to give all the glory to Jesus for this channel and I want to give him place first place Father, I thank you Lord. I Just thank you father For calling us and chosen us it chosen us for such a time as this Father, I plead the blood of Jesus over this atmosphere and over my mind father and I thank you Lord the father that we speak You speak through our vocal cords and think through our minds none of us and all of you in the name of Jesus I thank you father that you speak through me uninterrupted and unhindered by any satanic or demonic force I Bind witchcraft incantation chance voodoo all of it Father then none of it becomes niacin Jesus name and every every tongue that rises against us it falls to the ground in Jesus name And I believe the blood of Jesus all around me and my wife and my children and I thank you father for your angels that they protect us father In the mighty name of Jesus. Amen to name in well, I was Encouraged about all that's going on and I ran today and that's what I was praying over a lot For the Iranian people that are about to have a major revival But when the Lord showed us back I don't know how long's it been going on now about Venezuela and all the things the Lord has warned us about about Venezuela and I saw the Maduro Maduro would be removed and That they would put in a new government and the United States would set up camp there like they did an Iraq and that the United States government would eventually set up a base there and that They would bring in a new puppet government into Venezuela like we did Iraq and that the Maduro would be like Saddam Hussein a Gaddafi and the Lord warned us about all this now I saw Maduro setting all the oil fields on fire in Venezuela now I know that the United States government watches my channel present Trump included and And I wondered if he took What what what the Lord had showed us and and went after him and they captured him and his wife for what I understand So did they stop them from setting all the oil fields on fire? Which I thought that was interesting because I I like I said I'm not I give all glory to God ladies and gentlemen If you all know it everything that I see is by the Spirit of Lord. It is not by Brandon Biggs I I have this treasure in an earth and vessel that the Excellency the power will be known of him and not of me People automatically come out say Brandon stay humble, you know folks if you know Brandon Biggs, you know, it's not Brandon that says all this stuff. It's it's the Holy Ghost through Brandon and so I don't I Know who I am. I am just a the guy that it stays the janitor back ten years ago Five years ago clean and toilets It's still it's it's it's still apart. You know, you don't leave that It's still the it's still Brandon Biggs is there all this to me. I just it It changes like the tide When people saw that nothing happened like what they thought it was going to and people didn't die in New York and all the things People are throwing eggs at me through email. What do you say now? You you missed it and all this no, I didn't miss nothing. I Stand by what I said. I told you there would be these things coming to New York and we were to pray and That's what this channel is all about. I don't consider myself a prophetic voice I consider myself a watchman somebody who stands on the wall and tells you what's coming and what we're supposed to pray for The Lord said to raise up a million men and women prayer army and he said when you do this You will change things through the nations and you will see great things change through prayer and you are to come on this YouTube and pray and He said I put a gifting on you to pray and that's what you'll be known for throughout the whole world through prayer and That's what I've done. I've been obedient to what God has called me to do and I believe we we've had great Success with prayer and so I appreciate every single one of you that have supported me and And come on here and prayed with me and take it serious And we see what we pray about in the news all glory to Jesus so I Thought we saw Maduro is it Medavi or Maduro? whoever went down and had his ceremony underneath the New York There's too many M words Zero whoever his name is the guy that's Muslim Swore in on the Muslim Bible their Muslim Quran Sorry, not Bible Quran went down in the went like Batman. He looked like he was down in the The subway system like the penguin did remember whenever the second Batman returns, you know and Penguin went down there and was all down there with the penguin people. He's looked like a villain You know up down there and he's hanging out down there Swearing in on the the Quran and doesn't want to be out in the public because he's a devil You know I have to just say the man's a devil and so you know He's down there swaring on a Quran doing all his demonic stuff. He does. Guess what folks you voted for him. I Pray for New York. I pray for For what's coming next, you know here he is This guy's I told you the devil was grooming somebody new Here he is. He's coming out. Hello the new Obama everybody loves him. He's great. Huh has he's a communist So we'll see what happens next to New York. We I told you a storm was coming I'm not here I'm not a sugar-coated person to come and tell you everything's gonna be sugar coins and and gum drops and cupcakes like some of these prophetic voices that you're hearing that come on there are skinny jeans and Fog machines and tell you all the things that you know I hear After they give you your 2026 word and tell you all that they say that's coming and they and you hear it and you go What did they really say? That's what I want to ask you. What are these these these these prophetic false prophets saying to you and they're and they're giving you these sugar Coated words and telling you all these things. What did they really say after you heard it? Do you remember any of it? That's why because it's not the spirit of God speaking because when the Lord talks there's no confusion It it parts to see folks When God speaks to you and he warns you of that which is to come there's no question of what he's saying But there's a lot of words is being saying you go what really? 2026 is what what what did he just say because you know it ain't the spirit of God It's just his fluff coming out of him a lot of lot of lot of sugar-coated words I listened to it. Lord said I want you to be still son. You're gonna speak for me in the days ahead be still Don't go on YouTube any in the next three days be still And when I tell you when to say something because something big is about to happen to validate what I've told you's coming You Don't need people to give you a pat on the back. You don't need a huge platform behind a stage Just say the things I tell you to say and it's approved to be accurate. I said okay When everybody comes out throws eggs at you a lot. I just keep standing And he said and when the devil showed up my house to the last night was it last night. Yeah Hmm couldn't come in I had to go out. He was outside He was mad. I didn't understand what was going on. I went outside to my garage I opened the garage door and there he was and He said all kinds of stuff and I've delors said don't entertain him Bind him and tell him to get out of here, but he had a lot to say about our channel. He did not like it too much What we've been doing? He threatened by it but Audibly heard him I said Last time you visited you were really ticked off too You know when you're being effective People say he's he's not omnipresent But you know what's interesting to me as whenever you poke him in the eye He he don't like it too much and when you're praying and being effective in your prayers and And and the Bible the Lord told me he said a fervent prayer of the righteous available much Brandon the fervent Affectual prayer of the righteous. Do you understand when you when you are righteous and you're and you're coming up beside the Lord You're taking communion and you and you keep humble before him. He will exalt you and do type Who cares what all these other people say? Jesus is Lord Jesus is King and he's King in my house And when the devil he I wonder how many of the other prophets they I wonder if the devil visited them He's he's ticked off when you when you're when you're sparing mud in his face and You go up there and you you're telling people about Jesus Christ. He's coming. That's the whole bottom line ladies and gentlemen Jesus is coming and that's what it's coming with this Venezuela He's removing dictators and drug lords because our revival is about to break forth in Venezuela and I told you witchcraft was big in Venezuela and I saw darkness over the land and it was parted When all this stuff start to take place and I saw great revival About ready to break forth in Venezuela and it was spreads all throughout Brazil and all throughout South America And the Lord said I'm gonna pour out my spirit upon all those people Brandon and candies bones lifts How many times have we seen that and then he said I'm gonna move mightily and I ran and you're gonna see a Parting in Iran and all the what what I've told you about Iran and I said and I put the video out of what the short of what the Lord Joses about Iran and then he said I'm gonna do it in North Korea I'm gonna move in North Korea and I'm gonna shake North Korea I'm gonna get rid of it and I saw Kim Jong-un going All of a sudden he'll go home and then I saw and he's going to hell and then I saw His sister too And the Lord said I'm gonna renew two dictators Brandon I'm gonna I'm gonna liberate the people of North Korea in the days ahead and a great revival and I saw the army of North Korea trying to suppress it and in China coming in and they said he said I'm giving him a window of opportunity and I saw people being Trans not translated because that's the language 12 hoarding And a super highway above the atmosphere look like spaghetti noodles Lord said I'm gonna bring People you're gonna put you in there and I'm gonna bring liberation in the in North Korea Brandon I'm gonna do it in Venezuela. I'm gonna do it in places that that that have been suppressed by the government suppressed by the people That they not had a freedom of religion and been able to have a revival and I'm gonna bring great revival So we're seeing the first of it of what he said was coming so All this to say I Appreciate all your all's prayer support the last 48 hours has been really interesting for us and And especially spiritually and I don't talk about the devil. I'm gonna tell you this we don't give him any glory He's a loser and people say well we'll bring away something because he's the because he because of our Jesus made a display of Him openly try him from trying triumphing over him in it he made a display of him he kicked him right in the teeth and Jesus Christ is Lord and he is he is King of Kings and He is coming back soon and it's time for the church to wake up and the last word I gave was strong word What the Lord gave me to give you all and it shook me It shook me. There's a lot there. I did not give publicly You say why because it wasn't for you the Lord said don't give it yet Said they're not ready for it. Remember Jesus said in his word whenever he told the disciples. He saw there's much I can't tell you yet There's words that I can't tell you yet because they ain't ready to receive it Daniel couldn't he had to hide it Put it away because they weren't ready to have it yet The same things the Lord does with me now. They're not ready yet. Be quiet. I'll tell you when to say it So I just be obedient to what he's asked me to do So we pray over these things and we'll see some of these clips Braden do you want to show some of them? I This is interesting you don't want to beat stuff bomber comes in it's pretty intimidating our our helicopters are It's pretty interesting I look at how we move as a nation as our military is is pretty intimidating It's very intimidating. It looks like something out of a Hollywood movie whenever you see us doing stuff You know, it's not like it's like wow. This is real Do you have some of the clips? You got it There they are Look at that what kind of planes are those? Yeah, I don't know what they're saying said their same fat fat language Forgive us. We don't speak Spanish Or that Portuguese or whatever they're speaking so I don't know if they're saying bad words Like I said be careful, sir. Yeah I Haven't seen you Wow Do they cut out the power or anything is that like a city yeah, well, it's pretty amazing Nobody it's pretty amazing. Nobody really saw that come in in the media or anything did they? It's like a surprise Happened at night when everybody was asleep now Yeah Pretty wild So then we see the things that are happening in Iran and that that that is okay So I'm gonna go over that. I'm trying not to be too scattered, but I'm tired. I haven't slept today um I saw the the prince of Persia the demonic spirit Remember this all the angel and I told you all the angel had a hold of iraq And the lord said I'm bringing liberation to the iraq and iraq you did not would go up in value in the days ahead Remember that I warned you and we keep praying over that dinar and I saw the number 25 And I saw that that that prince of Persia grabbing a hold of babylon Had a hold of it and it was had a stronghold Holding on to iraq and iraq will rise up out of the ashes. I told you I saw palm trees coming up and I saw buildings coming up and I saw all these major things in the iraq People being liberated in their new currency coming up And I saw a new currency coming and I saw prosperity coming out of it seemed like out of nowhere But it would bring liberation and freedom to the america to the american people and the christians who had invested This i'm not giving financial advice I'm just telling you what I saw and what I believe the lord has showed me and a vision So don't say well brain you told me if I didn't tell you to invest in nothing I'm telling you what the lord showed me so I saw of what I believe the lord showed me I saw that that that angel grabbing a hold of that that it was not an angel was a demon It was a prince of the prince of uh Persia Grab a hold of iraq And I saw it had such a struggle But I saw it being liberated and I saw breaking in in in this and I saw uh his hands being loose step off of this I believe it could come out of this With a regime change and all of these things I saw three people over the central bank of iraq And all these major things taking place in iraq because iran had such a stronghold on iraq But maybe in this and what i'm saying i'm not trying to add to or take away from anything It's just me Bringing praying into this of what the lord has showed us over the course of time That there was going to be something a major uprising in iraq and in the banking system of it with iran so uh All this happening with iran and the people and all this liberate and all this Uh them taking over these cities your switching the clips too fast son Oh, you're not Okay, because i was thinking it's making me feel emotions. It's like whoa, I was like, how are you how are you doing that? I thought you were showing there. I was thinking i'm sorry for that. I don't know what he's doing Okay Because it was moving so quick i'm thinking how are you even showing them that Sorry, i'm tired son. I don't mean to be cranky daddy's tired um so Okay, so this is this is this is you want to show them now So this is all the people protesting and uprising in iran and iran And they're throwing they're wanting to overthrow the regime Right, so this is all happening at the same time I told you 2026 whenever the lord has been having me pray over hi the lord's room It's going to be an edge going to be a year like you've never seen before And it's three years Remember what he said three years 2026 2027 2028 will be an acceleration of things that will keep accelerating and accelerating Accelerating to what the next smita cycle That is a great opportunity For the lord jesus christ to come in the rapture. That's that's what i'm looking at 2028 the smita cycle that will end from uh for honor rahosh rahosh rahosh rashish thank you rash with a la la a rashishana a rashishana During that time frame of the feast of trumpets Watch that time frame 2028 It will be the time of when I believe the plague and the things will be taking place with this this death this black Thing on in sat cough was moving across when I saw it back Three or four days ago And I saw the plague coming and I warned you all of a major plague that's coming that will be a I Generated that they will release on the nations into the end of fall of 2027 Going into 2028. I saw a six month window of over 300 million people Passing away and it will be a massive plague that will hit the nations This is what we need to pray over next This is a major major thing that i'm telling you i've seen it so many times By the spirit of god that it will cause great havoc and it will be a covet on steroids If you thought covet was bad it was nothing it would be this is a cakewalk That was a cakewalk compared to what I saw coming in the days ahead The lord said a great acceleration of wars and rumors of wars and I saw a major Taking over of taiwan in the days ahead. I said taiwan when america is afflicted with a wound I saw taiwan they were circling taiwan and they took taiwan in three days China America was not able to help because it was too busy with a wound inside It was some kind of cyber event some kind of major event takes place in america Then at the same time or red that's when I keep telling you all i keep seeing a red dawn D-day experience in our own country and the lord keeps warning me about this over and over and over again He said because of the abidin administration They have infiltrated your borders and they are in your country as we speak And when I saw um the lord said you're too focused on the crown jewel But they will try to roll out in the days ahead through this hundred two hundred and fiftieth anniversary To infiltrate your country to bring great havoc and turmoil in there and you will be so grateful That president trump is behind that will in the days ahead You'll be so grateful and I saw president trump behind a major mayflower ship And he was sailing across the sea and he was he was he was like focused With with all the storm and all the tormal oil going on around him he had his eyes fixed He was a behind he was steering the ship Does anybody remember that? I bring all these things out because the lord shows us a lot And I saw major things take place in our nation One after another after another And the lord told us that what happened in europe And I saw that that a manual chrome was an ishmael to To the isek of what will come he is not the antichrist but he will look like it in the days ahead This is president trump you show him that picture remember this Brayden made it with a eye. This is what I saw in the spirit, but he didn't have crossing bones on his hat There you go, that's what I saw And president trump was sailing the boat And there was storm all around him And the lord said you'll be so thankful that man is as president in the days ahead I've seen this so many times president trump fixed on it on the taskhand the lord said pray for his security is safety so We see this man being uh, uh, met medabi Meduro who okay? Meduro Meduro was out today and the lord said a new government was coming So it's happening just like the lord said so what what happened next? I saw I saw in the days ahead zalinsky Remember I said that they will they will take him out and I saw it would be like jason borne member Jason borne I saw he was snorton coke and he was Uh, having prostitutes and doing all these things and I saw him trying to flee and he and he and he had Hundred million dollars in a plane and cash he has stored back a hundred million dollars He had stolen all the money of our taxpayer money and he had I saw 24 billion dollars That was corrupted money through politicians and all around the uh, uh, uh, uh through Crupt politician accounts that they were funneling money now Isn't it amazing that I told you I saw bees coming out of the ground in minnesota And all the things the lord showed us about minnesota And the corruption and the finances and I saw a red wave trying to come to minnesota And he said you have a crack. What will you do with it? To take minnesota for me and then mike lindale says hey i'm running for may governor Governor mike lindale we need to pray for him But I saw a cork in his finances and the lord said his infinites have been attacked Severely and he needs help and I saw a big drain and his finances were draining out before him And we'll sub pray for him to win He'll be good for that state But I saw the lady that looked african-american with the turban on her head she was removed In the days ahead I saw something heavy with her political career and it's over very abruptly And I saw new people coming in But then the same things will happen in california and the lord said pray for a great revival will break forth in california Same thing with portland, Oregon shaking to awaken in portland, Oregon And I saw a major shaking of an earthquake taking place in portland, Oregon There's so much so that I saw the buildings in british columbia completely crumbling to the ground And I saw 35 000 people pass away and british columbia within just a couple of hours done A wave of water comes in From the walk from the ocean And the lord said pay attention. This is what he's been talking to me about the last 24 hours He said you'll remember I told you to watch the ocean sun Remember I told you the active volcanoes would start to pop up in the middle of the ocean and and he said pray for the fish You remember the fish about the fish remember don't pray for the fish Pray about the fish because there's going to be a sign A lot of dead fish will start to rise up on the water on the on the beaches in the days ahead As a sign of what's about to happen for activity will come out in the middle of the water A volcano is in the middle of the ocean will start to become active and he said watch these things for they will be a sign I saw major earthquakes taking place in the gall and the in the in the in the the pacific ocean And so uh he he warned us about um China doing things down with the pen of malcanal in the days ahead and I saw that I saw uh Whatever that was, you know, I about all the the different things about the something happening in in in in Uh, what was it? Uh, Costa Rica? No Nope, no son. It was rumored that they had the water and the snake come up and poison the water There was something it was type of shadow. There was something happened with some kind of warfare some kind of territorial warfare and I saw uh the uh uh Guatemala And the lord said pray for guatamala because I saw some kind of uh some kind of something bad happening in guatamala And the people were getting poisoned, but I saw david hogan and the revival Same praying with hottie baker and some of these others praying for these people So we see we see we've seen quite a bit, huh? The lord's been good To us on this channel We're shown as that which is to come next thing I believe will be another attack that will be worse than October 7th on israel if you remember I saw benjamin being taken out And the lord said pray because I saw a benet coming back Now what does that mean that he will be removed by vote because the election is this year or is that mean because I heard the word Massad Now, I'm not a conspiracy theorist. I tell you what I see by the spirit of god when I pray But I saw a massage removing this man. I don't know what that means, but I I don't try to add to or take away from I don't because of on him on a live youtube channel But I know I know what it means. I'm not going to sit there and tell you I don't I know what it means. I know what it I saw But I have to be careful because they try to pull my feed three times already this last couple days I mean whenever I did it Braden said we we got I got to learn how to say things without saying it because I'm on their platform And the bigger the lord makes this the more I'm watched and so um You know, it's all learning curve. I'm trying but we're growing a x over the air all to the glory of god lord is And uh, we're believing that way to be a second platform that if this would something was to happen that you could find me still um Because i'm not going to hold back nothing I'm going to be bold as a lion I'm going to be bold and i'm going to stand on the wall and i'm going to warn you exactly what's coming of what I believe The lord is showing me And in people you always have the peanut gallery You always have the ones and it's like the lord showed me it was like a uh a football game And you have the people that leave everything out on the field But you always have the peanut gallery and this stands yelling at the players And there's a lot of you christians that are out there that don't have any relationship with god But you have the loudest voice out there screaming and eklin But but you know what your day's coming I have to say that to you The shaking's coming to your house hecklers And I and if people say well, we're out here. We're just we're out here Just picking and helping out with with trying to expose falseness. No, you're not you're you're a troll You're a troll you're the ones out there that are just the fairies of a land and god's going to deal with you To the ones that are trying to help and pray and and lead people to jesus You're the ones in the peanut gallery that he's going to deal with you. I told you first krentians five five's coming Just remember that I look I look for it. I pray for you and I pray for mercy for a lot of you eklers And I say okay Just remember what the lord says first krentians five five's coming knocking on your door So Brandon needs more risks We laugh at it, but it's not funny because it really is coming to your house first krentians five five Remember that I told you so but um What I saw last night I was sitting on the couch and the lord said there'll be a lot of um as I was praying I sit there the last night and I was interceding he gave me he gave me Because I've been praying this over me and I and I thought it was beautiful about uh, saw him 17 8 Keep me as the apple of thy eye Hide me under the shadow of thy wings And that's where that's where I have been concerning 2026 That we keep in the in as the apple of his eye Hide me in the shadow of thy wings father Because that's what really matters All the other stuff don't keep me as the apple of your eye lord and um What's the other what oh I saw a lot of mega ministers And i'm not going to say who I saw But I saw them uh automatically um retire I want to call there's going to be retirements in the days ahead a lot of retirements All of a sudden saying i'm withdrawing from my ministry and i'm putting somebody else in it You'll see withdrawals and you'll see departing And the lord showed me specific ones that will that will start to really uh Pan out in the days ahead And they have a huge platforms and I saw new david's rising up Again and the lord warman. He said they'll be great great ministries that they'll have Is it I don't want to call resigning transitions But it's not read they're resigning they're saying hey i'm retiring abruptly And so I thought that was kind of interesting as I was bringing into that um And you'll see that in the news you'll see that on probably facebook and all kinds of places and you'll go wow And there'll be a new person come up and take their baton and start running with the ministries In these areas some of them not so old some of them old Some of them you'll go no way Huh But it's all part of the process of the of the cleansing of the house. He said judgment begins in my house first And that's what you're going to see a lot of it a clinging of the house So To all 3 000 of you. I know this is kind of different. I usually do not do this video until i've had Rest at this time of day so It's 535 in the morning in that amazing So all right. Well, is that good did I cover everything pretty good? Yeah There was a revival breaking out in brazil and I thought that was really cool Uh, because with the lord showed us remember with the lord showed us brazil and a major revival breaking out in brazil And our and when we prayed so look at this right here I thought this was awesome cbn played it and um Go ahead Yeah, it was I remember you we watched it. Okay, could you're like daddy look it's 14 000. Yes, see It's probably too much We probably shouldn't play their stuff. I don't know who this company is Yeah, but they just showed this guy and then So they were just talking about there. This is the jungle jungle remember I told you I saw the jungle This was I saw them having a major revival 14,500 people baptize that's amazing Wow Yeah, it's beautiful I love it isn't Jesus wonderful. Thank you father That's beautiful That's awesome. Yeah, it's really cool. I love it I So many families getting touched by the power of god And for what I have seen in the days I had ladies and gentlemen The most the glorious outpouring of the spirit of god beyond anybody's comprehension I'm telling you what we're about to experience in vinacewela and I ran people say it's not time yet. Yes, it's time You don't understand how close Jesus Christ is to coming Do you see it now? Are you are when you when you see the signs of the times Are you able to see it a little bit more? I'm just I just I tried to show you the urgency you what I mean whenever he tells me there's no There's no urgency In the church there's not enough urgency An intensive an anticipation of the coming of the lord. Jesus christ and it's happening Just like you said That we would see look at this. This is this elder woman. She's like probably in her 80s Walking with a walker down the street excited to have a liberated Iran They've been underneath so much oppression They're burning the flag and that's a death penalty That tells you how free they feel that they're so so Suppressed and so angry inside for how their regime has treated them and how they treat women like dogs But yet god is going to bring a revival to those people and you're going to see people saved And you're going to see people delivered and i'm telling you ladies and gentlemen It's just now starting and he said days of great fun have just begun I'm excited about this But it's going to start and we're going to see shaking in america because he said great pride has set in He said i'm going to humble them i'm going to humble the people And Brandon there's going to be a great great great Revival that brings forth into america and it's going to be amazing Days of great fun Financial blessing and when i told you to watch trump sons Don jr. Eric in the days ahead for a great wealth transfer watch these two men For i will double trump's wealth by three Then brady brings us to many said daddy did you see this about trump's uh sons and in this W w L fi on crypto and all this i said no of course not but brady keeps me up to date man Amazing This kind of stuff i don't know something to follow maybe Because the lord said watch them Watch what i do with them i'm going to restore what the canker worm ate Over trump's past four years of persecution And i'm going to bring forth great wealth to this family They're already rich but he's going to restore back with the canker worm ate I'm expecting This year With all of it remember the look i'll look at this let's see I don't have anything not to be because i i don't i don't have anything. Oh it doesn't matter He said you could focus on a coin The dark is going to get darker and the light's going to get lighter Which side do you want to focus on for what's coming? You'll be able to if you go horizontal there you go brady naz a quarter It's that thin Do you understand how thin that that's thin you can really put peak on both sides But what side do you choose to focus on? The dark's going to get darker signs of the time of shaking in five areas There'll be a shaking in politics There'll be a shaking in the finances. There'll be a shaking in the earth The crest there earthquakes there'll be a shaking in The heavens and a shaking in the church Five major shakings That's that's a major shot side of the coin But do you see how thin that coin is the lord showed me said bring it as this thin as that The glory would be on one side and the greatest outpouring of of of what you've always dreamed of I saw brother Hagen. I saw Catherine coolman. I saw A lot of the greats peeking over looking into a portal. They were getting ready for the great show The greatest outpouring this this world has ever seen before and they were all anticipating acid Well, that must mean it's really about it's getting ready to happen There's no time and distance in heaven, I mean, you know, there's no time in heaven. It's all You know, but what they're looking for they know what's about to happen. They're being summoned Hey gets what you've been waiting for the great cloud of witnesses They're waiting. They're they're anticipating what they wanted to see on their time on the earth And they didn't get to the lord took him home first But he's going to use you and I I We've been called to the kingdom for such a time as this ladies and gentlemen But you can focus on which side do you want to focus on? There'll be fearful sites that you will see that will bring you to your knee Or you can focus on this side of the quarter of all the glory that you're about to see The greatest move of god this world has ever seen Is going to be on this side And scary sites will be on this side Shakings or awakenings all these things the governments I'm telling you I bet those people in Venezuela today were freaking out as those helicopters and those planes were flying in and dropping bombs I can't imagine being outside looking at that and going oh no hope no one don't hurt my house That's whenever you need to know your believer's authority Get your covenant rights and understand who you are and take your authority and pray Pray Pray pray pray and the days ahead. That's why we're on this channel How many minutes is this? 40 minutes not too bad So Learning your authority praying and and plead the blood reading about the blood the precious blood of Jesus And and and the main thing the Lord told us when I what was it? Yes for two days ago two days ago now He said I want you to get back bring out john beviers book The all god. I want you to read that again read the first three chapters And and really go over those like a fine-toothed comb The first three chapters of the all god. Why I don't know we're uh, what's our mission? Diane is trying to work on things right now to get caught up and Then we're going to um Really start to read those books and start to do things that god's calls do And people have invited me to come speak with their churches and stuff for the first of the year I'm praying about it still I'm not real quick to jump on anything. I go low go slow You know I've stayed on the youtube and I've talked I really don't even know if I came to your church what I would say Unless the Holy Spirit told me what say before time and I've just kind of just been on here and just talk Tell you what I believe what the Lord has told me is coming So, uh, it's interesting. I I I I'm honored all the time that people would invite me to come speak at their church so I just It's 645 and the east coast 646 Almost 7 in the morning. So all you waking up and praying with this early in the morning on the east coast. How many is there? 3,500 people Pretty cool. Well, I guess we're talking a year up right now, right? There's a lot of people here Yeah, Spain Spain Yeah, you're about even having an ending I should have had So let's see what happens Lozinski in the next couple of days It's going to be interesting in it Pray the united states of america does not give tomahawk missiles to Lozinski That's what we that's the number one thing you should pray About that because I saw them poking the bear with them shooting at the kremlin And I saw catastrophic event taking place with a weapon of mass destruction That will be used on poland in the days ahead And I saw a Weapon go off and it it wiped out a lot of people in poland uh, pouton does it And um, it's very serious There's a lot to that So, you know I don't you know, I don't know, you know, there's so much It's like I said, I bring all these little things to you all this big things now But bringing it to you and I pray that one person will grab this and that other person And by the time I know many hands make light work and everybody's praying over a piece of the pie And you say hey I got this. Hey, I got this. I got the hammer. I got the nail. I got the screwdriver I got the wrench And everybody's able to build this beautiful house together And not not one person saying hey, I'm bop the builder by myself, you know Who wants to be bop the builder? Not I like to have many hands You know because it's it's a lot going on right now And so we uh, did you show them the batman cave? I wanted to show that Did you see show the green Where it looked like I said it looked like the joker. I mean it looked like something out of the batman movie But We caught a guy in um, the fbi came out And he they said they caught another person in North carolina and he was a look like an african-american man that had hammers and knives ready to do stuff the Two grocery stores. So and so they caught him. So between that and all the other things we It was a california for people Texas North carolina And and uniforms now I don't understand what these uniforms were all about but doesn't that look like batman movie On the korean Constitution of the city of new york Discharge the duties of the duties of the office of the office of the mayor of the city of new york The mayor of the city of new york according to the best of my ability according to the best of my ability So help me god. So help me god. Congratulations mr. Mayor You Your to new yorkers And Did you show the police the uniforms? Yeah, now I don't know if this was terish related or just people quitting after he got sworn in You know, I don't want to assume But I thought it was kind of interesting they had all kinds of police uniforms that were found in a huge box And I don't know maybe this was one person to quit or or multiple or it was something more Wicked You know like it was like, you know how they were trying to pretend their cops and they dress up You know if it was terish or something that left their uniforms out there I don't know if maybe maybe somebody might say hey brainin that we found out what it is now I don't know because braidin Raidin found it and he said daddy. This that looks kind of weird that all these uh in n yp Uniforms are all found in a So we prayed that that were just somebody that quit when he got sworn in but they found all these uniforms That's a lot of police uniforms Oh, they're all on the side of the road So not a real good place to put those In a box in a box And there's a lot of them So either that was terish They were trying to get ready to dress up and do something or that's just somebody making a statement saying I quit You know who knows pretty interesting though Do they see it? So and then the other part was the guy up in minnesota There was more about that and there there that girl saying she wanted uh, the ela must was about to go And it was threatening ela musk and all that and that and that was pretty bad so And anything that i'm telling you is never I want to make that very clear anything that I see Is is never a threat i'm trying to tell you we should pray We don't want any harm to happen to anybody We're to cover democrats republicans uh All kinds of people we don't well that's that we're christians here And that's what we believe in god for protection over everybody that shows up Regardless of what you believe or what lifestyle you have I pray for you if you're evil or or or or good We pray for you to change and that you get born again But the but the thing is is that most people think well, you know when I talk about Benjamin and all the things the lord show me about that Peep there's people get excited. No, we don't want nothing harm to anybody We pray for the piece of Jerusalem we pray for every I mean there's some people have so much They're sick in their minds It's like folks Our job is to pray for peace And when this girl said this right here that she wanted ela must to be taken out and all that that's craziness What's wrong with people? And she has a huge following for what I understand then ela must say and then it is war Because of what she said threatening And I thought why isn't she in jail for for threatening him like that No, it's pretty nice so I So that's really what I had for y'all today. I think it's good enough, right? Yeah, you think Sorry if it's a little raw. I have had any rest today and I I'm going to pray with you a little bit here And we're going to call it and I'm going to come back for refreshed And then it won't be so you'll be you say Brandon. That's better. I said yeah It's burning that something to eat and had some rest. I was praying over this all night And I thought with him and I told him I said, but let's make a little live with him because people want to know what what the Lord's showing me and um And so we we know you know, huh Father we just thank you father for their body We thank you father as they start their day It's Saturday lord We're so grateful for the wind the weekends always so awesome Thank you father for your protection over us as we uh Have football games and all the United States of america father. I thank you for a supernatural edge of protection The father that whatever takes place in america father the the red don experience we call an uncovering We ask father that there's protection over every person that's represented here today and europe Father as we get ready for the olympics Father we call the uncovering over the olympics in jesus name of every plot every plan every tears attack Every demonic attack off of this off of the nation's father We thank you lord that there's a supernatural uncovering the father that we will see revival again And the name of jesus we call for revival from the north the south the east the west over every continent Father over every nation we say in the name of jesus we're about to have the greatest move of god This world has ever seen In the name of jesus. We thank you lord that you're stirring up the new david's the new esters The new leaders father spiritual leaders in jesus name We thank you lord that we'll have the the greatest freshest move of god that we've ever seen before That is bigger than is this street bigger than any kind of john wesley revival We thank you father That you've called us and you've chosen us for such a time as this And we father believe For the freshest touch of the holy ghost today For a fresh touch a new drink a new fresh fresh wine a new and a new wine skin Thank you father that you've you've called this father right now to be salty in this time And when people are looking they go what what is different about us because we have a smile on our face And we have jesus in our hearts and we're showing jesus to the world and they say what's different about you it's jesus And i thank you that the healing power would flow through our hands That father that we and we lay hands on the sick they'll recover And we take this body right now in jesus name because we know The by your stripes or we're healed But we take this body in the name of jesus And we're top from the top of our head to the souls of our feet we're healed and oh and well And we thank you father for good day ahead of us and the mighty name of jesus Or we take the blood And we plead the blood of jesus over us And we thank you lord We make much of the blood and the blood makes much of us And we thank you lord for the blood We apply the blood and we thank you lord The the father that we are covered by the blood and we're always in the right place of the right time doing exactly what you've called us to do in the name of jesus And we thank you lord Then no weapon formed against us with prosper And we take the blood right now in jesus name and we thank you father that we're expecting good things We're expecting good things in jesus name amen and amen Thank you for revival Thank you father Thank you father for your angels. They're watching over us. They were always in the right place at the right time And we give you praise and glory father for the blood that covers us from the top of our head to the souls of our feet We call our marriages restored and blessed and father. We thank you lord That their children are rising up and call their family blessed father that they're healed and whole and well No weapon formed against them with prosper Father as they get ready to start back to school the father that they'll be kids that are on fire For jesus father going back from christmas break father. I thank you lord the great great revival is happening in our public schools and our private schools and father in our college campuses And father. I thank you lord that father that we are in that place of readiness That we're looking up for our know we know our redemption draws nigh And the name of jesus now father. I pray over every church service That takes place over this weekend and we pray a supernatural protection over every mega church Over every little church And we thank you lord that your angels are camping around in about every place of worship Over every over every airplane the jesus american air united delta Is that amazing Father we thank you lord I Amba ready up our door show bush over Great I put all the material I lean into you In the midst father, I thank you lord I thank you We confidently trust you I see every little thing my lord has told me we have to pray over in the next couple weeks I There's a lot of work here I Don't know where you can go with that All I know is that we have a lot to do and I'm thankful for every second one of here So I'm going to get some rest and I'll be back here a little bit I I'm going to put on shelf. I'm my I can't push through this be right now But I'll be back in a little bit and we'll do it and we're going to break and we're going to we're going to take care of this I see Super Bowl highlighted the olympics churches mega major mega churches you need to pray over jolosene's church and Um Some of these others make a mega churches praying over protection over them Praying protection over our churches And it's not just about care as my churches. I see catholic churches involved in this Praying over catholic churches praying over a Baptist churches major gatherings of people Praying over our our churches So So that's what we continue to pray for this But i'm going to go I wanted to touch base with y'all until you i'm okay I I I needed a little break. I pushed really hard in december And whenever you push as thin as what I did I told dian I said I have to get my bearings And pray and seek him and listen to him for us and what the lord has for us and for 2026 and listening even more carefully because I don't want to be I don't want to walk on thin ice You know when you you want to be you want to be right on right right with him walking and it's very um This is a very very It's a very awesome job But when you have so many people watching you You have to really take the time to Separate yourself and I understand why jesus went into the mountains And took time to seek the lord The father by himself and separate even from the disciples and said listen I'm going to go up and i'm going to sit and i'm going to listen and talk to my father And it made sense now. I get it more. I go, you know what? I understand So it is what we've been doing just being quiet We're fine and i'm so thankful. You know, there's a lot of people who are really concerned brandon. It's been two days Yeah, i'm i'm i've been three days now now it's three i'm here But i'm but it's like listening and just being really thin of and listening praying And that's what we've been doing. I whenever i have that demonic experience yesterday I thought boy, you know when i poke the devil in the eye. It's nice. I go. Hey, we're being effective You know when you're winning and so glory to god And so um, that's where we are and we'll continue and then we'll be back here I'll have a video for you tonight. We're gonna pray more I'll pray for two hours or whatever the lord leads us to do and so we're so thankful for every single Of you. I know we're talking to a whole different group of people and you're up right now and so Welcome, we're excited if you could like subscribe click the notification bell click the thumbs up And we're so excited that you're here. We love you and thank you for your support Thank you for being here and praying with us and we'll be uh back again I'll try to get up earlier and and do more prayer videos I like doing the night videos because it's whenever the it's more active for us You we I see a lot more and so it's interesting. So we love you. We'll see you uh In just a couple hours. I guess God bless you all remember put a smile on your face and a song on your heart Jesus loves you. We love you. God bless you. Bye. Bye
