Timestamp: 2026-05-27T23:59:16.900025
Title: 区块链圣手 - 都说投资界大起大落是常态，比尔·阿克曼的经历简直就是活生生的例子。 拿3000万美元起步，最终收获15亿美元，这笔操作在当时引来不少争议... 2059512903032824239
URL: https://x.com/Cryptoss168/status/2059512903032824239?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 1:15:40

Description:
### 第一部分：作者的思想地图 (Author's Map)

#### 1. 核心论值 (Core Thesis)
个人与商业的成功绝非取决于一条不犯错误的线性上升轨迹，而是根本上取决于个体如何面对、承受并战略性地利用不可避免的重大失败；真正的竞争优势在于将每一次毁灭性的挫折转化为系统性或结构性改良的契机。

#### 2. 论据支撑 (Evidentiary Base)
*   **个人经历与轶事（主观体验/直觉启发）：**
    *   17岁时与父亲就SAT成绩下注2000美元（其全部积蓄），在考前一天因紧张被父亲撤回赌金，以此证明自己极早便具有“全仓下注”的冒险基因。
    *   大学期间参加赛艇运动（Crew），以此作为学会忍受痛苦、应对逆境并“死撑过去”的意志启蒙。
    *   个人健康管理：实行“零糖”饮食、坚持抗阻训练和充足睡眠，作为支撑高压决策的生理基石。
*   **商业案例研究（历史先例/实证数据）：**
    *   **MBIA（市政债券保险公司）做空案：** 历时数年的监管调查（Spitzer及SEC）与舆论围剿，导致第一家基金（Gotham Partners）清盘，但最终在2007年金融危机中通过信用违约掉期（CDS）斩获15亿美元利润。
    *   **General Growth Properties (GGP) 破产重组案：** 在股价暴跌99.5%（跌至0.34美元）时逆向买入25%的股权，通过进入董事会重组债务，最终实现约100倍的投资回报（股价回升至31美元）。
    *   **潘兴广场（Pershing Square）的业绩曲线：** 自成立以来实现45倍的净回报（年化复利约16%-21%），尽管在2017年经历了高达35%的净值回撤、投资者赎回以及个人离婚、诉讼等共振危机。
    *   **赫兹（Hertz）投资（最新案例）：** 在该公司因电动车战略失误、资产减值导致股价暴跌90%后，买入其近20%的股权（约2.3亿美元），将其视为一种受关税预期（二手车价格上涨）支撑的高杠杆、非对称期权。

#### 3. 逻辑推导 (Logical Warrant)
作者从其个人历史与商业战绩中提炼出两个核心逻辑推论：
*   **复利救赎律（Daily Compounding of Recovery）：** 摆脱困境不需要一夜之间的奇迹，而是如同资金复利一般，通过每天在生理、心理和业务上取得微小的、难以察觉的进步，在90天到半年内形成向上的指数曲线。
*   **资产负债错配的结构性改良（Structural Optimization from Failure）：** 长期投资逻辑与短期赎回压力之间存在天然的“资产负债错配”。作者正是利用2017年的毁灭性危机（失败），倒逼潘兴广场完成了向“永久资本（Permanent Capital）”模式的转型，从而彻底消除了赎回风险，奠定了后续暴利的基础。

#### 4. 适用边界 (Stated Scope)
*   **适用对象：** 即将进入华尔街或高压竞争市场的年轻精英（如西点军校/要塞军校的学生）、长期价值投资者、以及处于个人或职业生涯深渊中的决策者。
*   **限制性声明：** 
    *   对于高杠杆的逆向投资（如Hertz），作者明确承认：“这是一个高风险的错配概率投资，你同样可能会输掉所有的钱。”
    *   永久资本的成功路径具有高度的不可复制性，它是极端危机逼迫下的特例产物。

#### 5. 隐性对手 (Implicit Opponent)
*   **线性精英主义（Linear Pedigree Mindset）：** 那些在名校（如哈佛商学院）一路顺风顺水、从未经历过真实失败，并误以为人生可以通过完美的履历规划、风险规避和线性递进来实现卓越的精英阶层。
*   **短期主义市场（Short-termism）：** 仅凭单季度回撤或短期舆论风向就判定投资人“死亡”，并频繁进行资产赎回的短视资本市场。

#### 6. 预期效果 (Intended Takeaway)
作者旨在引导听众：
1.  彻底放弃对“无瑕人生”的执念，主动将失败预期纳入职业生涯规划。
2.  在遭遇灭顶之灾时，不看“跌落的高度”，只看“当下的第一步”，利用复利效应自我救赎。
3.  通过极度集中的投资组合（仅持有10-12只高品质股票）和彻底的肉体自律（控糖、运动），在不确定性的风暴中锚定个人的确定性。

---

### 第二部分：无情但极度公平的同行评议 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair REVIEW)

#### 1. 强力重建 (Steelman)
阿克曼的核心论点具有极强的战略心理学价值：**将失败视作一种“重塑资产结构”的系统性契机**。在高度动荡和不确定的资本市场中，心理韧性（Resilience）与肉体自律（控糖、睡眠）不仅是道德说教，而是维持高风险决策质量的底层硬件。通过将“复利”概念从财务领域迁移至心理与日常行为管理，他提供了一套对抗系统性崩溃的微观操作指南。更重要的是，他通过将潘兴广场转型为永久资本，证明了优秀的系统设计者能够“利用危机消灭危机源（赎回机制）”，实现反脆弱性。

#### 2. 最弱连接 (Weakest Link)
该论证中最致命的逻辑支柱在于其对**“永不放弃（Never Give Up）”与“复利救赎”的绝对化归因**。
> **引文：** *"And the never give up thing is entirely true. And I'm a good example of that." (永不放弃绝对是真理，我就是一个好例子。)*

**逻辑崩溃点：** 
这一断言建立在严重的**幸存者偏差（Survivorship Bias）**之上。阿克曼能够“永不放弃”并等来“第二幕（Second Act）”，其前提并非他拥有比他人更优越的自律，而是他拥有极其高昂的**初始社会资本与退出保护网**。当他在MBIA案中面临清盘危机时，他可以在卡波圣卢卡斯（Cabo San Lucas）的奢华度假村泳池旁，偶遇亿万富翁伊恩·卡明（Ian Cumming）和乔·斯坦伯格（Joe Steinberg），并轻松获得5000万美元的重启资金。对于99.9%缺乏这种顶层人脉网络的普通投资者或创业者而言，“永不放弃”在没有流动性支持的深渊里只会导致债务的加速复利，最终肉体与财务双重毁灭。他的“复利救赎律”暗含了一个未声明的前提：**在复利产生拐点之前，你必须有足够的资源维持不死。**

#### 3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)
*   **报喜不报忧的选择性叙事：**
    *   阿克曼详细拆解了MBIA（成功做空）和GGP（成功重组）的辉煌战绩，并含糊地提到“在一笔投资上亏损了40亿美元”（指Valeant药业或康宝莱Herbalife做空案）。然而，他巧妙地避开了对Valeant案的深度解剖。在Valeant案中，他同样践行了“永不放弃”和“战略性死扛”，结果却是潘兴广场历史上最惨烈的财务灾难，最终他不得不割肉离场。这直接反驳了他“永不放弃每次都有效（It works every time）”的断言。
*   **赫兹（Hertz）案例中的宏观叙事套利：**
    *   他将投资Hertz的合理性部分归结于“特朗普政府可能对进口汽车加征关税，从而推高二手车（Hertz资产储备）的残值”。这是一种典型的“事后找补（Ex-post Rationalization）”。关税政策的博弈具有极高的地缘政治随机性，将一个高度杠杆化的价值陷阱（Value Trap）包装成受宏观红利保护的“非对称期权”，存在严重的叙事过度包装。

#### 4. 隐性前提 (Hidden Premises)
*   **前提一：资本市场精英阶层的“免死金牌”机制。**
    *   论证假设：只要智商极高且没有道德污点（如Spitzer调查无果），社会网络就会源源不断地为你提供试错宽容度。
    *   *未提的问题：* “如果一个没有哈佛商学院光环、没有富裕家庭支付学费、没有华尔街顶级人脉的普通人遭遇了同等规模的信用破产，他是否还能获得‘第二幕’？”
*   **前提二：财富是衡量成功与救赎的终极尺度。**
    *   论证假设：即便经历了离婚、诉讼和严重的心理危机，只要 Pershing Square 的净值曲线重新拉升、财富规模重回巅峰，人生的失败就被彻底“治愈”了。
    *   *未提的问题：* “这种极端的、以资产净值为唯一锚定的反脆弱，是否本质上是一种病态的、对不安全感的过度补偿？”

#### 5. 认知盲区 (The Blind Side)
阿克曼的视角存在一个巨大的**建构盲区**：他无法区分**“由于自身认知局限导致的愚蠢失败”**与**“由于不可抗力导致的悲剧性失败”**。
他将所有的挫折（无论是做空失败、行业变革还是个人婚姻破裂）统一打包进“痛苦-坚持-复利向上”的英雄主义叙事中。这种叙事抹平了不同性质失败的本质差异。在投资中，有些失败是因为“下注逻辑已死”（如Herbalife），此时最理性的决策是“迅速认赔认输”，而不是“永不放弃”。他的英雄主义叙事在客观上鼓励了**“承诺升级（Escalation of Commitment）”**这一认知偏差，容易引导信徒在错误的道路上死扛到底。

#### 6. 一击必杀 (One Hit Kill)
> **致命提问：**
> “阿克曼先生，如果‘永不放弃’和‘在深渊中死扛’是成功的终极法则，那么您如何解释您在Valeant投资中因‘死扛’而给投资者造成的40亿美元永久性资本损失？如果当时您更早地放弃并承认失败，投资者的处境难道不会好得多？您如何给‘值得坚持的深渊’与‘必须立刻割肉的价值陷阱’划定一条客观的、非感性的界线？”

#### 7. 如何盖棺论定 (What Would Settle It)
要验证阿克曼的“逆境复利论”究竟是普适的成功学规律，还是仅属于顶级精英的特权，需要进行以下实证检验：
*   **对照组研究：** 追踪过去30年内，在公开市场中遭遇过单笔投资亏损超50%或管理资产暴跌超35%的基金经理。
*   **变量控制：** 将这些经理分为两组：
    *   **A组（精英保护网）：** 拥有常春藤盟校背景、初始家族财富背景、或顶级行业巨头引路人。
    *   **B组（草根背景）：** 缺乏上述社会资本。
*   **判定标准：** 观察两组在“遭遇重大失败后，通过‘永不放弃’重新崛起并获得同等规模资本支持”的概率。如果A组的复苏率显著高于B组，则证明阿克曼的“第二幕”理论本质上是**社会阶层固化与精英互保机制**的产物，而非其个人所宣扬的“生理自律与心理复利”的普适结果。

---

### 第三部分：Mermaid 概念图谱 (Conceptual Map)

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    %% 核心论点
    subgraph SG_Core["💎 核心论点 (Core Thesis)"]
        A["<b>非线性成功与反脆弱系统</b><br/>成功取决于在毁灭性失败中<br/>进行结构性改良与心理复利的能力"]
        style A fill:#FFFACD,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:3px,color:#333,font-weight:bold
    end

    %% 第一部分：思想地图
    subgraph SG_Map["🗺️ 作者的思想地图 (Author's Map)"]
        direction TB
        B1["<b>1. 经验基石 (Evidentiary Base)</b>"]
        B1a("赛艇运动: 忍受痛苦与逆境")
        B1b("MBIA做空案: 历经围剿最终斩获15亿")
        B1c("GGP重组案: 0.34元买入破产股实现百倍回报")
        B1d("生理管理: 零糖饮食、抗阻训练与睡眠")
        B1 --> B1a & B1b & B1c & B1d

        B2["<b>2. 逻辑推论 (Logical Warrant)</b>"]
        B2a("<b>复利救赎律:</b><br/>每日微小进步在180天后指数级爆发")
        B2b("<b>结构转化律:</b><br/>利用失败倒逼转型，建立'永久资本'消除错配")
        B1a & B1d --> B2a
        B1b & B1c --> B2b

        B3["<b>3. 战略应用 (Stated Scope)</b>"]
        B3a("集中投资: 仅持有10-12只高品质 predictable 股票")
        B3b("概率投机: 如Hertz投资，作为高杠杆非对称期权")
        B2a & B2b --> B3a & B3b
    end

    %% 第二部分：无情审阅
    subgraph SG_Review["⚔️ 无情但公平的批判 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review)"]
        direction TB
        R1["<b>1. 致命盲区: 幸存者偏差 (Survivorship Bias)</b><br/>'永不放弃'的底层是顶级精英互保网络"]
        R1a("富裕家庭支付学费与试错成本")
        R1b("度假村偶遇亿万富翁获得5000万重启资金")
        R1 --> R1a & R1b

        R2["<b>2. 证据审计: 选择性叙事 (Cherry-picking)</b><br/>避重就轻，掩盖死扛导致的毁灭性损失"]
        R2a("Valeant投资案: 盲目坚持导致40亿美元永久亏损")
        R2b("Herbalife做空案: 执迷于'永不放弃'导致巨额认赔")
        R2 --> R2a & R2b

        R3["<b>3. 隐性前提质疑 (Hidden Assumptions)</b>"]
        R3a("资本市场对所有人公平提供'第二幕'？(阶层壁垒)")
        R3b("财富重回巅峰即代表人生危机的彻底治愈？(单一价值观)")
        R3 --> R3a & R3b

        R4["<b>4. 一击必杀提问 (One Hit Kill)</b><br/>如何客观界定'值得坚持的深渊'与'必须割肉的价值陷阱'？"]
    end

    %% 关联线
    A --> B1
    B3a & B3b --> A
    
    %% 批判性指向线 (虚线)
    B2a -.->|"忽略了维持不死的资源前提"| R1
    B1b -.->|"只谈成功案例"| R2
    B2b -.->|"普通人无法复制的永久资本"| R3a
    B3b -.->|"Hertz是否是另一个Valeant？"| R4

    %% --- 节点样式定义 ---
    classDef mainNode fill:#FFFACD,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:3px,color:#333;
    classDef mapNode fill:#E0F7FA,stroke:#00ACC1,stroke-width:2px,color:#006064;
    classDef mapDetail fill:#E0F7FA,stroke:#00ACC1,stroke-width:1px,color:#006064;
    classDef reviewNode fill:#FFCDD2,stroke:#D32F2F,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#B71C1C;
    classDef reviewDetail fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#EF9A9A,stroke-width:1px,color:#C62828;

    class A mainNode;
    class B1,B2,B3 mapNode;
    class B1a,B1b,B1c,B1d,B2a,B2b,B3a,B3b mapDetail;
    class R1,R2,R3,R4 reviewNode;
    class R1a,R1b,R2a,R2b,R3a,R3b reviewDetail;

    %% --- 子图背景样式 ---
    style SG_Core fill:#FFFDE7,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:2px,color:#333
    style SG_Map fill:#F1F8E9,stroke:#689F38,stroke-width:2px,color:#33691E
    style SG_Review fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#EF5350,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#C62828
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
Okay, so I was a risk-taker And I my I parents didn't believe in the allowance so I would you know I came in off to never pretty early on and I'd saved up about two thousand dollars by the time I was Gonna take my SATs and I told my dad. I was gonna get an 800 on the verbal and Probably 800 of the math and he says okay. Well, how much do you want to bet and I said okay? Well, let me just see how much I have in the bank. It's okay two thousand dollars. They said okay Hey, this was a week before the SATs. On the Friday before the SATs, I died got a bit nervous and he withdrew the bet. True story. So then I went into the investment business. So you were going all in from the age of 17? Yeah, for sure. OK, so the most important thing we can part tonight, $2,000 was a lot of money when I was 1983. The cadets, what would you advise the young cadets in school today who are coming out, how should they be preparing right now to get on to Wall Street or get into the job market? So one of the things I say to, when I talk at business schools and colleges, and I go to a lot of great schools, is the speech I give or the advice I give is that if you're here, you're unprepared for what's coming. And the reason for that is most of the places where I speak, you have students who did really well in high school, did well in their SATs. They got into a really good college. They did really well there. They got a job for a couple of years. They did well in their job. Now they're at Harvard Business School. They're about to graduate. And I said, the problem is that if you're here, you've had no experience with the most important thing that you need to understand in order to be successful. You've had no experience with failure. And you're going to fail. It's going to happen. and life is like that. And you might get fired from your first job, your first startup, you may not be able to raise the second round, you could fail personally, you could have challenges in your personal life, you could your partner, your girlfriend could have some challenge that takes you offline. At every successful person I know, has their key to success was how they dealt with failure. And I think what's interesting about this place because I think they try to teach that while you're here. And it's one of the few schools I've spoken at. My biggest piece of advice is that be prepared for the unknown, be prepared for the uncertain, be prepared because you're gonna fail. You're gonna go bankrupt, something. But the great thing about this country is that there's always a second act and actually people like betting on people that have failed. Look at my trajectory, it was not a straight line up. I've had significant moments of major setbacks in business and personal life and otherwise. And I just, you know, I think the most meaningful part of my college education was I wrote crew. And maybe it's something like the equivalent of some of the challenges you deal here, but you learn to deal with a lot of pain, a lot of adversity, and you make it through. And as long as you believe that, you know, if you find yourself in a deep dark hole, you just power through one day at a time. And this thing that teach you in business school about compounding and the laws of the power of compounding, it applies to saving yourself from challenges. Meaning just make a little bit of progress every day. You won't notice the progress for the first 30 days. 90 days in, you're starting to notice the curve is starting to move. Six months in, you've made huge progress. Don't look at where you fell from. Don't look at the startup that had a $300 million valuation where you raised money. And now you're starting all over again because the original idea didn't work. Don't focus on the 300, focus on where you are, focus on the next step, big little progress every day. It works every time. And the never give up thing is entirely true. And I'm a good example of that. So I've made bigger mistakes in the investment business than almost anyone. I lost $4 billion on one investment. And that's a big number. And despite that, all of my investors who stayed with me over time have done extremely Well, you know, it's been a 16% compound of return for 20 years at Persian Square, but it wasn't a straight line up. There was a moment where we were down 35% in 2017 from the peak. Investors were redeeming capital. I was going through a divorce, you know, I had a litigation in connection with one of my investments. It was a really sort of rim moment. And, you know, I took my own advice. I made little progress every day. Use good judgment. And I'm way better off today having gone through that sort of moment. Our firm is one of the important things about the investment business. Problem with the investment business, if you're a long-term investor, is investors generally give you money over a relatively short period of time, and you're trying to generate value over a long period of time. And there's this mismatch, and people talk about asset liability mismatch problems. You have a bank where you're taking deposits, you're making longer-term loans, that creates risk. The same thing's true in the investment business. So my ambition was always to get to a place where the capital was permanent or were never leave. And the path by which I got there, it was that failure that created the opportunity to create permanent capital. And that's been a huge advantage for us. So look at every challenge as an opportunity. The good always comes from the bad. You just have to look forward. That podcast, I've sent that real with Friedman, that interview that you did about the little steps and I sent that to both of my kids and I keep sending it to them every time I popped up on my Instagram, I repeatedly sent it to my son and daughter. I was going to try to figure out how to attempt you into doing it, but you did exactly that podcast of the little steps of compounding nutrition, sports, health, maintain your health first. Actually, I'll tell that part of the story. Yeah. So I'm also a huge believer that you can't make it through a challenge unless you're physically mentally healthy. So, you know, good sleep, weight lifting is actually, this is a good audience to talk to. It's good for your muscles. It's also really good for your brain and nutrition. I don't know. I haven't checked out the food here. But kind of a believer that this seed oil thing is not good for you. I went zero sugar beginning in November. It's been amazing. I recommend you do that as early as possible. Sugar is poison. And the sooner you give it up. I mean, the withdrawal is like a couple of weeks without heroin, I think. But once you're through the withdrawal, it's kind of a life-changing thing. So nutrition, sleep, exercise, you know, some sun, and you can get through anything. This is a slide of the Mirror 45X return of Pershing Square since inception. Do you do I explain the best investment, worst investment? Actually, the thing I'll point out here, you see, if the line sort of gradually goes up, that's a 21% compound of return for the first dozen years. And then there's like a relatively small decline. That relatively small decline is down to 35%. And at the time, it felt momentous, but the beauty of compounding with the passage of time is you look back, that doesn't look that meaningful. So that's the thing that you have to remember. The challenge you're feeling feels monumental, of business loss, the money loss, maybe you got sued, maybe you lost a lawsuit, a divorce, I mean, you have a health issue. It feels just like your life's over. And it's how you successful people, it's how you deal with the challenge, how you deal with the failure that determines your success. It's less about the success. It's more about the inevitable challenge in making it through it. And a lot of people just sort of veer off and give up at that moment. If you don't, you know, it works. Yeah. Let's talk a little bit about your path. You're very, very short path to a hedge fund, immediately from undergraduate. Business school. From business school. You found your way to Joe Steinberg. Wikipedia Joe made one of the worst investment decisions of his career by not taking the full stake in person for later on. but talk a little bit about the path that took you to Gotham and then to Pershing. Sure. So I went to business school to learn how to be a good investor. And the first investment lesson was to read the course catalog before going to business school. I went to Harvard Business School to learn how to about investing. I get there. I look at, there was a thing called a course catalog. You guys don't know what that is, but it was like little books. It had a list of classes in it. And literally, first day, I pick up the book, and there's not a class on investing. And I had already committed $40,000, which is what it cost to go for a year at Harvard, including housing. So I learned the first lesson in investing is you do diligence before you pay. Very powerful lesson. And then what I did is I opened up a fidelity brokerage account. I had $40,000. My parents were paying for my education, which is an enormous advantage in life. I had 40,000 in savings. I said, look, this is my tuition in the investment business. If I lose it all, it's another year Harvard Business School, but I'm going to pay a lot better attention in class and have some money at risk. And I designed my own investment program, which was accounting, finance, competitive strategy with Michael Porter. And then I started investing, and a classmate of mine was kind of lonely. It was an investment club of one. There was no investment club, believe it or not, at Harvard back in 1990. And so we created an investment club of the two of us. We started looking at companies together reading on your reports and it was fun. And then And by the second year, I said, imagine if we could do this and people would pay us to do this. That's how you know you've found your career. If you find something that you're excited about doing, even if you're not paid to do it, that's what you should do. And then actually, if you can pick one of those things where the pay is good, obviously, even better. And then I said, well, why don't we just start an investment firm? And there was a guy named Seth Klarman who had graduated 10 years before us, a random firm called BALPOST Group. and he was hired by a group of faculty that a very number of wealthy families were looking to create or to invest in an investment firm, find a firm like Johns, for example, and they couldn't find one, and they hired this HBS graduate to kind of do some due diligence on who would be a good firm, you know, who would be good to invest with. And they turned out they were more impressed with him and were any of the firms they met with and they backed him and launched a hedge fund right out of Harvard Business School. And I figured, okay, he did it. And we could too. And I figured the worst case is that we get a job. All my classmates were getting jobs. And I figured if I did this for a couple of years and it didn't work, that's what they call experience, is making mistakes and learning from them. So I've had a lot of experience. And if it worked, it would work. And that's how I started. And then I raised $3 million, which took a few months. But it was enough. Didn't have any, it wasn't married, didn't, you know. My business partner and I shared in the apartment and that's how we kept the costs low. The first big ditch where you were discovering mortgage insurers. Take us through that scenario and most people, you know, I think even some of the guys I work with can remember back by like you were being investigated by Elliot Spitzer sued by the mortgage insurers, not sued, but yes, they didn't like us. pilloried in the press by these people, and they're chasing you at a temp, but you're right, but you're very early. Take us through that and then how that then transitioned into pushing. Sure, so I mean, Gotham Partners, my first investment from the vast majority of our investments where we'd find companies we'd like to invest in them, they would grow in value. We'd look for companies where we could help make them, you know, they were underperforming or undervalued because they were making sort of bad decisions and we'd buy a stake and you know, help them make better decisions, so-called shareholder activism. We came across a company called MBIA Municipal Bond Insurance Association, and it was a guarantor of munibonds. So, they would put their credit wrap on, you know, small, small, medium and large credit, you know, the issuances of states and municipalities. And a friend had recommended it as a long investment, a stock that you should buy. And as I was reading the letter from the CEO, it was a very strange letter, and it made me kind of go deeper. And the more I read about this company, the more I concluded that this is not actually a good investment. This is potentially a totally fraudulent company. They had a AAA rating. They had a trillion dollars worth of liabilities. And they had 5 billion of capital. You know, penny, literally pennies supporting these obligations. And the whole premise was, there were guaranteeing bonds that would never default. But with that AAA rating over time, they started guaranteeing much riskier things. And by the time I was looking at the company, they were guaranteeing subprime mortgages and so-called CDOs and synthetic CDOs. He's very complicated instruments and it just led me down a rabbit hole and I concluded that this AAA company was basically insolvent and that it would go bust the moment there was any stress in the housing market. And so there was an instrument invented a year or two earlier called a credit default swap which is basically like an insurance policy you can buy on a company. And the insurance policy pays off at the company goes bankrupt. And the insurance policy trades every day and there's a market for it. And because the company had a AAA rating, the insurance on the company defaulting was almost paid nothing, paid very little for it. So this is an incredible investment. And so we bought well over a billion dollars of this insurance policy and it cost us 0.23% of the total value of the policy. The problem is that no one knew what we knew, and so I talked to our lawyers and they said, look, how do I get the word out on this company? They said, look, write everything down, write a little white paper. We'll make sure we've got footnotes for every fact we allege. You allege, and we'll have all the proper disclaimers, and then you just put it out there, and free speech, and the world can decide. And so I did, in fact, this, And then actually Joe Steinberg, who John referenced before, invested, we set up a separate entity, separate partnership, just to buy more of this insurance. And you know, for $20 million, we could have, you know, at the company went boss, we made a billion and a half. That sounded kind of exciting. And then we put out a little white paper. There was a 66-page white paper entitled, is MBIAA AAA. And then the turd hit the wind generating the vice. And basically, I pricked the bear. And the bear here was the largest guarantor of New York state and city bonds. And they knew every governor, state treasurer, they were incredibly influential company. And so they called the treasurer of the state of New York and they said, look, there's this evil hedge fund guy. claiming that we don't deserve our AAA rating, and Moody's S&P in Fitch, they were AAA, and he has an investment on which he'll profit if, you know, he's market manipulation. And that was really the beginning of this incredible sort of life experience where they went after me very aggressively in the media. Elliot Spitzer launched an investigation, he was like this, you know, the toughest attorney general ever. And that's my first real, you call it a ditch, seemed like a very deep mine. That's the best way I would describe it. And that was my first challenge. And I was investigated for six or seven, it's actually not even clear how long, but I had six or seven interviews with the, and they requested every document, it was like 186,000 pages of due diligence. I had underlined on the company. If you can imagine how much reading I did here, And then I had to explain to a group of lawyers who knew nothing about finance, what a credit the false was, the accounting for these instruments, why it was wrong. And my lawyer said, look, just try to keep the answers short and kind of like this answer. So you know, seven days of on the record testimony with the attorney general, then the SEC didn't want to fall behind Spitzer, they launched their own investigation. And it was like a moment in my life. And I had to wind up my fund because I couldn't, you know, while this was going on, you know, we had to kind of push pause. And but I just believed in free speech, I knew I was right. And, you know, they just tried to find something wrong with my white paper and there was nothing wrong. And at a certain point, my favorite moment with the SEC, all these transfers, by the way, are public. At a point, they said, well, Mr. Ack, when you seem to be implying that we should be investigating MBIA instead of you. I said yes. And they didn't. This was 2003, and then in 2007, the financial crisis, the first companies to blow up in the financial crisis were the bond insurers. And basically, after a spitzer's investigation, one of the things that's really remarkable about Joe Steinberg who we mentioned, I was tarnished in the press and the government investigates you and they find nothing wrong. They don't write you like an apology note that you can show mom. See, mom, I did nothing wrong. They just disappear and they go quiet. And I want to go back into the business. I want to launch a new firm. And I'll tell you a small little anecdote that John doesn't know. So my wife and I, my then wife, I've been remarried since. She and I went away just to get away from all this bad press and everything else. And we went to Kalasin Lucas and went to this beautiful resort and we got there early and you know we just went there for peace just to get away from all the press and everything else and we check into the hotel and they're like your room's not ready you can wait down by the pool we go down by the pool and I kind of walk in and my New York City clothes everyone else is you know it's just beautiful scene and this guy gets up seeing me he says What the fuck is going on? And it's a guy named Ian Cumming and it's Joe Steinberg's partner. He's there with a bunch of friends. And he says, Bill, we need to talk. And we sit down and we have lunch. And I tell him the whole story. And he says, you know what, Bill, when this smoke clears, let us know, Joe and I want to back you in a significant way in your next, whatever your next thing is. Which is an amazing thing for someone to say. say. And it took me about 10 months to work through all this stuff. And I launched Pershing Square and they put 50 million in. And they were, you know, very reputation, you know, amazing firm. And with that, and a little money I scraped together, I started Pershing Square. But it's kind of a good example that you can come back from, it was pretty cool, you know, grim. So, the best investment, best investment. Why don't we just talk about the bad ones? Oh, no, the good news is, by the way, MBIA eventually, I rebuilt the position and then it blew up in the financial crisis. And I made, you know, a billion-and-a-half dollars for our investors on, like, a $30 million investment. And so it was a good, good end of the story. And there's a book about it called Conference Game. If there's ever, we did use the slugs. Ah, okay, there's the book. This, uh, it's out of print. It's such a popular book. I don't know. Best investment, so the best, I would say they're, so that was one of the best investments. The best investments are generally ones where everyone else thinks you're wrong, right? So we had this company where everyone believed It was the most credit-worthy company in the world. It was as good as the federal government. Triple A rated, and actually, the federal government today is not even triple A rated. It's like double A, double A plus, or something. And we bet that a company with a triple A rating was going to go bankrupt, and we made 35, 40 times our money. The inverse of that is in November of 2008, a shopping mall company called General Growth, second largest shopping mall company in the country. The stock went from $63 a share to 34 cents in like six months. And the reason why the stock went down 99.5% was they had a lot of debt, they borrowed money in the CNBS market, which is the securitized real estate market, and that market shut down during the financial crisis. And everyone said they're going to go bankrupt because they can't pay off their debts as they come do. They had 27 billion of debt, about 15 billion coming do in the next 18 months. the stock went from like a $6 billion market cap to a $100 million market cap. And my bet was, you know, the malls had gone from 93% occupancy in 2007 to 95% occupancy in 2008. So the occupancies were up, the rents were up, the non-operating income was up, the fundamentals of the company were solid. And these were basically class A's or the fanciest, you know, best malls. And so the assets were fine. And if you know, before this company, everyone who had invested in a company that had gone bankrupt, the shareholders had lost all their money. But I didn't understand why that had to be the case. I read, you know, book on bankruptcy, I called our lawyers, and I'm like, look, I think the assets are worth more than the liabilities, why shouldn't the shareholders be able to make a meaningful recovery? And they said, look, it can happen, but it never does, because what happens when a company gets delisted and goes bankrupt is people sell the stock, distressed investors buy the data to discount and then they work the process to the courts and end up keeping 100% of the company. So I said, well, we're going to do something different. We bought 25% of the company in the market for $60 million starting at $0.34 a share. I joined the board and then I helped the board run a process that benefited not just the creditors, but also the shareholders. The stock went from $0.34 to ultimately $31 a share, but it was, so again, the most Contrary in investment you can make buying something is to buy stock and a company going bankrupt Right because everyone says it has to go to zero And if you have do a little bit of work a little a lot of work and have an insight. Those are the best examples You've absolutely changed your style over the years. You used to be an aggressive activist I'm not I'm always aggressive. I'm always aggressive Why not be aggressive? Is everyone here aggressive? I assume you're aggressive. You go to this place You want to be aggressive? You're either aggressive or you're weak Which you prefer. You don't publicly short companies anymore. We don't short stocks. Big mistake, don't short stocks. And you've achieved a measure of permanent capital in the last few years. Which is very important to Pershing Square. Yes. How has that changed your risk tolerance? How has that changed your risk parameters? So, I would say our risk parameters haven't changed. But what's changed is when I first went into this business, No one knew who we were, and we were telling kind of big public companies that we had a better way for them to run their business or structure their business than they did, and the idea was how could someone outside of McDonald's or Wendy's, some of our early investments have a better insight to how our company should be run or structured if you don't even work here. And so the early days of shareholder activism companies really push back on shareholders who had ideas, but we had some big early successes. did really well. You build what I call reputational equity over time. You know, when I started perjuring I was 37. Today I'm 58. I'm basically the age of most. I'm sort of one person to remove from or one or two people remove from every CEO in America. I've been on many public boards. So, you know, built a reputation. People kind of check me out by talking to CEOs that we work with. And the advice they give is, you know, you should hear what he has to say. And so we haven't had to barge our way into the boardroom. Today we get invited in, and we can do what we do without having to run a proxy contest. So that's what's changed. It's not really a change in risk. It's a change in sort of the maturation of the firms. Switching gears, a little bit more current events, because you said we can throw away the script. You can't ask me anything. Tariffs. What's a tariff? What's a tariff? The last guy who's sat here is in charge of that effort. I think in charge is not entirely active, helping. How do you think this is all going to work out? Is this a negotiation or is this trade war? So I think a tariff is a tool that can be used to accomplish certain objectives. And I think the present objectives are important. So, one, we have unfair trading relationships with various countries around the world, where they charge higher tariff on our goods than we charge on theirs, or they have other practices that make it very difficult for U.S. products to enter their market. And President Trump is America first, he doesn't like the country being taken advantage of, and he wants to fix those arrangements. So that's one way you can use a tariff. What I thought most of his effort would be, so-called reciprocal tariffs, you're charging is 10%, which are charging you nothing. You know what, we're going to charge you 10. And if you don't like that, if you'll take yours to five, we'll take ours to five, and we'll use this tariff as a way to kind of create fair trading relationships. That's one important potential use of tariff. Another one is the world has become, I would say, a riskier, geopolitically and otherwise. And we've learned in COVID that relying on other countries for PPE or the ingredients that make pharmaceuticals is potentially threatening to the United States, so we have to be able to make certain product here that's important for the defense of our country, that's important for the health of our citizens, and relying on semiconductor production on an island off of China, that seems like a bit of a risky proposition. So we got to bring that activity here. TCMC, you're amazing at what you do, but if you want us to buy from you, we need you to build a plant here. And so another way to use tariffs is to say, hey, we're going to put very big tariffs on these important strategic assets that we need in America, and that's to bring that sort of activity home. And then the third thing I would say is this question of balance of trade. And here, this is where I would say, I feel like the president thinks tariff is a little too beautiful a word. What I mean by that is, you know, when the president got up as he called it Liberation Day, and he talked about reciprocal tariffs, the market went up, was up about 2% when he first talked about, you know, the reciprocal tariffs, because people thought he was going to use them as a tactical device to lower tariffs. And then he put up that very famous chart, which calculated what was called tariffs, but really was a calculation of kind of the trade balances between the U.S. and other countries. use that as the basis to say, OK, Vietnam is effectively charging this 92% tariff. So we're going to make a fair deal with them, and only charge them a 46% tariff. And that calculation, I think, is not one that fits into my understanding of the economic world, if you will. And it makes sense to me that the United States, as it doesn't make sense, let's put it this way, that Madagascar or Lizoto is going to buy as much from us as we buy from them. just really the reality, we're a much bigger economy, we're with my vastly bigger country, I'm giving you kind of the extreme examples, but the same things true for Vietnam and the same things even true for South Korea and kind of otherwise. And there's, you know, we learn, somewhere in an economics class, you learn about something called comparative advantage. It does not make sense to produce t-shirts and blue jeans and baseball caps generally in America. Other countries with lower cost labor, it's a better place to make those kind of goods. So I think the kind of, I guess I have trouble giving short answers, but the answer here is, it sort of depends on how the tariffs are being used. And the other point I would make is you can't make changes in your supply chain overnight. And when the president announced the tariffs at this very, very high level, my advice to the president was, pause, you've gotten the world's attention. People had a real opportunity to feel like what the impact of these tariffs would be if they were instituted immediately. Let's pause, let's give Scott time to negotiate deals with our trading partners and let's set up so that we can do this without disruption. The risk of what's happening now is that business people, in order to be in business, you've got to predict the future. You've got to say, how much am I going to sell next quarter next year? You've got to plan for that, you know, you may have to add, make an addition to your factory, you have to hire workers, you have to make investments. It's hard to plan for the future if the future becomes uncertain. And what the sort of tariff, what more to extend has become one, has done is great a lot of uncertainty. And uncertainty causes businesses to pause. When businesses pause, the economy gets weaker. And this community knows better than any other, if you're going to go to war, you want to be at your strongest and fittest. And that same thing's true if you're going to go to a tariff war. The United States has got to be a really strong economy. And you don't want to disrupt that economy. The other thing you do when you go to war is you want to work with your allies and you want to focus on your enemy. And I think we kind of launched a tariff war against 170, 80 countries at the same time. And vast majority of those countries are friends in the United States. And I think in retrospect, we should have focused on China. So I think we're going to get to the right place. The president has shown a willingness to adapt and make changes on the fly. And I ultimately, big believer in the country, I believe in the president and his advisors. And I think he will eventually get it right. And China, where do you want to, how do you negotiate that out? Because you did use the term war. Yeah, look, when 145% tariff, it just means you've just turned off trade. There are very few, I can't think of a product that a company buys from China, that if the price goes up 145% that they can pass along that cost, or they have enough margin to their business where that doesn't wipe out their business. So a lot of companies are as quickly as possible moving their supply chains to other places. But there's still even Vietnam, which is sort of a natural place, for example, to if you're making stickers in China, Vietnam is a logical place to do that. and even the Vietnam situation's kind of uncertain. So I think it's likely that this, we've had a broad forward of demand into the first quarter as businesses assumed some amount of tariffs. And so they said, look, let's ship as much as we can out of China and other places where we're expecting some kind of tariffs. And we've kind of front-loaded some demand. And I think you're going to see kind of a pause kind of going into Q2. So, I think the, you know, we'll be at the beginning of a recession, I think, for sure in Q2, and what keeps us from going into a deep recession is that this gets resolved, you know, fast. We start hearing about a deal with Japan, you know, soon in South Korea, India, all of a sudden the business community starts to say, okay, this is going to work. This is going to get resolved. I can start predicting the future again. I can start hiring people. I can start making commitments. I want to ask one more question before we go to Q&A, Harvard. You're trying to help them improve themselves with sage advice. I think, you know, we both had the benefit of going to these schools that have drifted away from what their core mission was. The other night at dinner, you laid out, here's my activist plan for Harvard, this is what I was. How do you fix Harvard? So, the Harvard's a great place, you know, you fill loyalty to any institution that's played a meaningful role in your life. I went there four years undergrad, as I mentioned, I grew up, I grew for four years, I went back to the business school, I had a great education, I made lifelong relationships, care about the plays. What's happened at Harvard and actually other, so to speak, elite institutions is what I describe as almost ideological capture of the institution. And, you know, there's been a lot of discussion in this administration. I wrote a, like, 4,000 word essay. You might call it on Twitter, on DEI, in January of 2024. And I talked about how this ideology had kind of permeated Harvard. And, you know, we had an institution that was focused on meritocracy and excellence and colorblindness, I would say. I would say, and it became an institution focused on race, on gender, or some people call intersectionality, on kind of a framework for the world where their world is divided into two groups, people who oppress other people, and people who have been oppressed for other people. And this ideology kind of permeates, unfortunately, kind of the humanities at Harvard and is affected everything from the admissions office to how faculty are selected and the other thing that's happened is that each of the various, you know, the government department, the economics department, et cetera, the department's kind of a point their own faculty. Harvard did a survey a couple of years ago, an anonymous survey, 2% of the faculty identified as conservative or very conservative, and the rest of the faculty basically identified as some portion in moderate, vast majority describe themselves as left or far left from a political perspective. And when a department tips 70% progressive left, the departments at Harvard tend to, maybe it's natural about how academia works, they appoint people that share similar political views. led the institution to kind of veer so far ideologically to kind of left politically. And the problem with that is that in my view education, the way you learn is you get exposed to broad, diverse viewpoints, and Harvard has lost that. And the way you fix that is I think it starts at the very top. It starts with board of directors. My advice to Harvard was, you need to fix this, or your loans are going to stop giving money, and the federal government is going to stop finding you. And that's how it's going to get fixed. And financial pressure focuses the mind. And Harvard has a $53 billion endowment, but it's extremely illiquid. It's like 85% of the assets are in private equity, real estate, and venture capital. And I question the carrying values of those assets. A lot of them commitments, you know, 2021 values are being used to carry a lot of venture investments that are not, I would say, today accurate. They Harvard has $67 billion of debt. They just had to borrow another $750 million. They rely a lot on alumni donations to fund current investments. And the endowment itself is actually 10,000 smaller endowments that have very strict limits on what the money can be invested in. So Harvard's in a pretty tight, with $53 billion, the only way they can get liquidity is borrowing money. And they're putting it to send themselves for a problem because if you're an alum, I wouldn't be excited about giving money to Harvard and knowing the money is going to pay debt service. So I think financial pressure will cause, you know, the government withdrawing $2 billion of funding, this is going to, the faculty at Harvard are going to, I think, revolt because if you're a top scientist where none of the ideological stuff is actually affected your work and now you're going to lose a chunk of your funding because, you know, the radicalization of the humanities at Harvard, it's going to cause you to question whether, you know, I would say that the faculty should, you know, 15% of the faculty are causing 100% of the problem and I think that's how it resolves itself. Harvard may be able to hold out for a couple of billion dollars but Cornell, you know, not too far away with only $10 billion and 70% of liquid only really has 3 billion of liquid funds. She would hold a couple of billions of research finance from Cornell and you're in a a tighter spot much more quickly. Crisis can solve a lot of problems. As I said before, good always comes to the ban. Let's go to Q&A. Yeah, someone just asked a question. Go ahead. Yeah. Do you think it's every welcome? Why is it so hard to make mechanical watchmaking toward the K. Okay, question is why is it hard to make mechanical watch movements in the UK? So this is a bit of an arcane question. The reason why I'm being asked is I recently took control of a watch company that's based in the UK. It's called Vermont. Vermont's well known, actually, military community, because 26% of their sales are to Navy SEALs, Special Forces, Air Force, SAS, around the world. I kind of walked into a watch store, liked the watches, wrote a note to the guys who started the company and then ended up owning it. It happens to me sometimes, and the history of watchmaking is all the innovations in and watchmaking came out of, actually, England, because the British were the big adventurers, and they had to figure out how to track where they were in the world, and they had to come up with a mechanism to keep time. It was a very famous book called Longitude, which is about this, which is worth a read. But the Swiss were a bit like the Japanese of the US auto industry. Initially, they did make very good cars, but eventually the Japanese really took over, and made better cars in the US. The Swiss were sort of the, made cheap copies British watches and then eventually it became the better watchmakers. Rolex is actually a British company but tariffs were introduced and so they moved Rolex to Switzerland and so watchmaking itself requires talent and you know all the watchmaking schools are in Switzerland but eventually we'll be all right so today Bermal watches are Swiss movements assembled in the UK, so check out Bremel. Yes, please. I watched the short document, the documentary, I'm getting hanged together on that Argentina fishing shirt, he guided you that OV. What did you see in him to make you decide to send him the three books in the mail for him to read you basically a test and can see if you read them out? And then visit two quarters, right? So when you all went to advocate the structure of that deal, how did you structure that deal with the opinion of the government, how did that end up? These are by far the most obscure questions they've ever received. So there's a small, this is short documentary. It's like playing on Delta Airlines. Funded by Yeti. And it's about a guy named Oliver White, who is kind of the Roger Federer of fishing. I met him when he was around 25 years old, fishing in Tierra del Fuego, Argentina. And it's kind of a funny story. I went to like a charitable type, you know, dinner and it was an organization that promotes entrepreneurship in South America, run by a friend of mine and my dad, you know, loved fishing. He was sick at the time. He couldn't go to the dinner. So I bought one of the auction prizes, which was a week at the Best Fly Fishing Lodge in I went with having flyfish before and it's the equivalent of going to the Indy 500 without a driver's license. And we went down there and there were a dozen guys from Jackson, Mississippi that for the 30 years their dream was to go to this place. And then me and my friend my high school friend had never fished before and that was kind of the setups. And I met this guy named Oliver White and he taught me fly fishing. And I'm good at picking people. I don't know exactly how to describe that. It's a kind of skill you kind of learn over time. But I was super impressed with this young man went to actually UNC, philosophy major, outdoorsy guy. And I said, look, if you ever, thanks for teaching me fly fishing if you're interested in learning about investing, let me know, and I'll teach you investing. And got touched a few months later, I said, if you were serious about that, let me know. I said, yes. And so I sent them actually about 10 books. And I said, read these and then call me back. And then he read them and he called me back. And I hired him and he worked for Persian Square in the very early days for about 18 months. Now the problem was, this guy is a real guy likes to live in the woods. And I moved him into New York City. He found an apartment with a disastrous roommate Craigslist, you know, in the concrete jungle of Manhattan, and there's always so much he could tolerate of that. But after 18 months working in Pershing, you learned about investing, you learned about companies, and we decided to go on business together, and you went to the Bahamas, and he bought a failed hotel with me as his partner, and we turned it into, or he turned it into, one of the best fly fishing lodges in the world, and the only thing we underestimated was the hurricane risk. So it was about a million and a quarter investment and it was generating about a million dollars a year in cash flow, which it did for five or six years until it disappeared in a storm. So that's what happens there. I'm going to go watch the first question like that I've ever got. In the back, yes. So, Mr. Ackman, I'm Paul Meeks, a mentor of leader on my higher hand, Mr. Meeks, I teach finance and accounting. And I supervise the Super Management Fund, which for which I manage about $2 million might be less than eight, so we don't have that video. But I had 90 some odd students come through my three classes today and I asked everybody to write a question that they could pose to you. OK, so I've got 90 questions. I have to answer. I don't think we have any. I got a short enough the answer. So I suggest that we hit one of these cadet questions, They'll introduce themselves and ask the question, you don't need to hear me say it. And then we'll go to students, non-students, non-students, do you think that's cool or fun? Great, two things. So first of all, Mrs. Cadet, Angel Paul, and she has a question for you. Hello. In a world driven by short-term results, how do you maintain a long-term vision in both investing and leadership? Sure. So what I would say is, and this is advice I give everyone here, the problem being young is that you want to get rewards as quickly as possible. And time seems to pass really, really slowly. But value is very rarely created overnight. It takes a long time. It can take decades to be created. and going back to my compounding, something you really should spend a little time studying, understanding the curve of compounding, doesn't really show much progress. It's a bit like COVID, right? People didn't notice COVID in the early days of COVID compounding, but it was compounding 100% a day or some number like that, and then eventually it exploded. Once you understand the power of compounding, once you understand it takes a lot of time to create value, and that many people of short-term focused, if you, one of the great competitive advantages you can have in life or as an investor, is just having a long view. Because some of the best opportunities, the benefit of that opportunity doesn't show itself for a number of years. So some people, for example, take the job that pays the highest salary coming out of the Citadel. Because maybe they've got some student debt or they're planning to get married at some point. And that extra $20,000 or $30,000 or whatever the number is, is the difference between them living a little nicer place versus otherwise. But what matters when you're picking a job is what does it look like over the next five years, 10 years, et cetera, or what will give you the best experience that you can leverage over time to create even more value. And so I think once you figure that out, It's really, it's not so hard to make that kind of decision. And it gets easier, the more successful you are. My principal driver in life has been independent. I wanted to be independent. I wanted to be able to say whatever I wanted to say. I wanted to not be reliant on anyone else for a job. I wanted to be financially independent. And once you get to financial independence, all that stuff becomes easier. But I always kind of believed that I would be successful. I actually told my dad when I was 20. I said, dad, I'm going to be a millionaire by 30. I'm going to be 100 millionaire by 40. I'm going to be a billionaire by 50. That laughed. And I've always been like a head of the plant. And not that that's money is the measure of anything. But I thought I was a billionaire when I was 22. I just used a high discount rate to discount my future cash And by the way, that's how you should think about it as a young person, right? The biggest advantage you have is time. You know, you've got extra years of compounding. Here's an interesting stat, Warren Buffett, when he was 50 years old, what percentage of Warren Buffett's net worth did he create after 50, and 50 sounds old every room? The answer is 99.5% of Buffett's net worth he created after 50 years old, and now he's 94. So anyway. I think long term. We have one of the back here. First of all, thanks for the sit-off for let the bunch of those college of Charleston people sneak in. Thanks, John, Tray. Well, Bill, real quick, I was short and sort of get back to the students, but when you hand your sort of moral presay against normal life, 10 plus years ago, I read some documentation that being surprised at the distribution and recruitment of people who are willing to get up their last dollar for a dream that had a very low probability of getting on. Did you see that same population during this last election, and as there's some correlation of our elite institutions like academics where we are today, Marx has been asked to keep missing history for people. So Ergelife, which was a, which is a pyramids game, prays on undocumented immigrants and they sell them the American dream and they have few other good choices and the disclosure is obviously very misleading. So it's sort of this unique kind of circumstance. I'm not sure I completely understood your question, but you know the big part, you know, getting back to the question about tariffs, I give President Trump enormous credit for working hard for people in our country that have been left behind. You know, the focus on bringing manufacturing back to American, by the way, there have literally been trillions of dollars of new incremental investment announced in the last very short period of time of companies opening, you know, or committing to open and invest in the country that are going to bring more jobs back to the kind of the center of our country. But we've had massive, you know, the nature of a world where you can get access to unlimited bandwidth at a very low cost, you can get access to, you can be 22 years old and raise whatever money you need to create a startup and on your iPhone you can reach kind of a global marketplace. That's enabled a massive, massive wealth creation where, you know, Mark Zuckerberg can be worth $100 billion with an idea he had dropping out of school. But if you didn't have that path and that opportunity, and you grew up in a town in Middle America, and the steel mill is gone, where the auto factories shut down. The parents are unemployed. And people are overdosing on fentanyl. These are the people that are left behind in our country, and I give the president enormous credit for trying to, And I think successfully bringing back more industry, more jobs for people that have left behind. So these people have been, yes, they've been missed. And they are more susceptible to scams, because they're looking for a way out and they don't have a lot of other great alternatives. We'll go to a connect curve. So once you reach the top, where are your priorities shift, am I? So my priorities really haven't changed for my, what do I focus on? I focus on, obviously first, making sure families okay. I'm an extraordinary, economically fortunate person. My family's been okay for a very long period of time. I can take care of them, I can look after them. One really important thing, That, you know, something that was said to me, I was one of the other challenges in my life is my first marriage didn't ultimately work out. You know, my ex-wife and I realized ultimately, maybe weren't the best for each other. I probably realized it a little bit more. That's a hard thing. And I had to, you know, have the courage, you know, to get divorced. And I'm like a super loyal person, you know, three kids, one of whom was 10 at the time, you know, So, but a good friend said to me, Bill, your most important obligation to yourself is to be happy. And if you don't accomplish that, okay, it's really hard to accomplish anything else. I figured out pretty early on, one of the things that makes me, one of the principle things that makes me happy is it's gonna sell a little goofy, but helping other people. So from, you know, for decades, I've been helping people find a spouse, get a job, you know, and make your list of get access to a good doctor. And what's happened with the passage of time, I have more resources, I have more connectivity with my ability to help people has expanded sort of significantly. So I used to think that philanthropy was a good way to help other people. And I think it's actually a pretty good way, a given way about $850 million. But $850 million later, I have more confidence that capitalism and for-profit businesses are gonna help way more people in philanthropy kind of ever will. So, philanthropy is still important, but I'm really careful to use it in ways where there isn't a for-profit kind of business solution. So, my priorities are, one other helpful piece of advice I got from a very good friend, you know, the advice is you're gonna die, okay? So, how do you have a meaningful life? And the best way to figure that out is pretend you're dead. It's your funeral. Your best friend gets up to give you a eulogy. What do you want him to say? And then work backwards. Live your life so that when the day comes, your friend stands up and explains your life, you feel really good about. And for me, that was, OK, I want to have the largest benefit and impact on the largest number of people. That's going to be my sort of measure of success. So I try to do my platform today on how to do that is day job. It's actually a good thing to make money for other people. I think I've had an impact on the way companies are managed and governed. One of the reasons why the United States is more competitive than Japan is shield or activism is actually made companies much more competitive, have higher margins, allocate capital more effectively. So I think my day job is made a contribution. Philanthropy, we focused on scientific research, backing talented entrepreneurs, kind of solving problems. And then my third leg to the stool is actually Twitter. I signed up maybe seven years ago, started tweeting periodically. And I've taken on various issues, everything from child sex trafficking on Pornhub, where I had a little campaign to shut down Visa and MasterCard that we're providing a facilitating payments on cornub, a website where child sex traffickers were putting up videos of sex with children and then doing a rev share with cornub that you can imagine. And the payments were going through visa and MasterCard. And I figured out, I read an article about this in the New York Times, and I thought this, I could end this pretty quickly. And in two weeks with a tweet and a 30-minute appearance on CNBC, 80% of the videos were taken down. Visa and MasterCard shut down, providing payment support to those companies. So the Twitter platform is really powerful. I had very strong views about the election. I thought I felt strongly, we had two choices. I felt strongly that President Trump would be the better choice, an imperfect choice. But the better choice, I felt for various reasons we're heading in the wrong direction. So I tried to be helpful on the election. Some people may agree with me in that. Some people disagree with me on that. you know, we'll never be able to do an AB comparison on whether we would have been better off with one versus the other. So I look, I try, you know, I'm with extreme good fortune comes the opportunity to be helpful to the people and that's when I want my legacy to be. So that's what I'm working for. You're good. Good evening, and thank you again for having a class for putting this on an eight-person re-evented program what you bring to the community. That's made no way to go like Bill, it's got to come here give their time to share, you know, it's just invaluable knowledge experience with the students that also for us here. And so I've got one question in a couple of different parts, not my G-cards. The first question is, did you score 800 on the verbal? No. I got one wrong and I'm very fortunate my dad didn't take the bet. And I keep eating you touched on and I agree 100% to the best and the ability to adapt and overcome challenges. And it was interesting, something that British watches. I just happened to be wearing a British watch, the first British watch band that developed it and has moved in over 50 years, but it's said before bringing on to Roger Smith, I don't know. No, it's a Christopher Ward, SH21. As an aside, the reason I said, the watch industry is a case is going to be adapting to change. So the reason the Swiss watch industry is what is today, 16th century calendars came in and said we're not going to contribute to space of consumption of wealth anymore. We're not going to allow gold, jewelry, and overnight, the gold industry have to find a new purpose, have to be purposed by saying, OK, we're going to incorporate watches into our gold and decorations. And that's how they recon. And you talked about the time smash. The most important thing to be able to overcome those challenges, 2017, Santa like was a particularly painful time for you. So I thought we could spend some more time talking about it. And specifically, you know, more direct. I think that's the question of more direct examples of how you cope with challenge. So is it tapping into the internal reserve? Is it leaning on your network of friends? Is it actually one thing? Sure. So yes, I said, you know, sleep, nutrition, exercise, the most important thing I left off is surrounding yourself with people who love you, right? So family, very, very good friend of mine. He and I actually was the first time with Elliot Spitzer and the investigation and all the negative headlines and everything. Almost every night we'd go for a walk and you know we'd take a walk from, you know, ten to ten thirty and we just walk to the Hudson River, walk around, walk back and just sort of companionship and support hugely, hugely important. So that combined with the other stuff is how I made it through. Paul, I think we have time for one more questions. Well, I'm happy to stay as long as you want me. Okay, so then the other 89 questions. Well, we have a cadet next, right? Where is cadet McKay? Go ahead, ask the choir. We can hear you. Oh, sure. I'm going to see the list. Number seven. How do you handle cadet make a controversial decision? So, actually, I'm an emotional person, but I'm a very unemotional person about investing. And, you know, Warren Buffett talks about what he calls temperament as being a key factor. And what's interesting is, you know, if you think about how human beings evolved, usually it was actually a very good idea of all the other people in the village are running that way to run with them, right? Because the enemy is probably coming. But investing, usually the best thing to do when everyone is running that way is to like, you know, go the other direction. So it's kind of inhuman, in a way, which is why it requires a kind of a dispassion. And the reason why markets are so volatile is because when people see their 401K accounts go down 10% in two days, people panic, and you're kind of biologically incentivized to do precisely the wrong thing the wrong time. And that's just, there are two things that help. is you should never put yourself in an investment position where the assets you have at risk, if they were to go down 50% tomorrow, you'd have to move out of your house or it would have some meaningful effect on your kind of life. So, you know, getting yourself to a place where you're sort of independent enough that you can, that the capital you're investing, it doesn't matter where the value of it six months from now, you're from now to or even three years from now. What matters is what it's worth in 10 years, 15 years, 20 years. If you can get yourself to that place, it's easier to be sort of dispassionate, whereas if you have 100% of your net worth invested in the market, and you use borrow money, borrow money, then if your emotions are probably, there's no way not to be emotional about it. So get yourself to a place where you can be dispassionate emotional, but a lot of it is just training, you know, getting, getting used to the volatility. That's the best answer I can give. I just start. Mr. Ratman, will you take one more question here on the right? Sure. I'm not going to get home before dinner, so that's enough. I'm happy to stay as long as you want me. I just have a question about kind of the global view of the U.S. now, and can you convince Trump that we need allies, or if I'm ordered, how does this play out? Look, I think we've done some reputational damage in the last couple of weeks, but the United States has done a lot of good over the last 250 years. And the president is actually a very charismatic person, very good at building relationships. And I think this will remain one of the best places in the world to invest. Legal system, liquidity of the markets, SEC, disclosure, all the various competitive advantages we have. There's a reason why companies list on NASDAQ and the New York Stock Exchange, instead of their home markets, even when their company's completely domicile and doing business elsewhere, because the highest valuations are achieved here. So I think we'll make a good deal with Japan, the Japan and we are happy with, and we start knocking these things out. I think people will remember the tariff tantrum, but we will move forward. Again, it depends, but that's my expectation of what's gonna happen. Good day. Root Geary. Are you ready? So what we do is the most important thing for us is what we call business quality, so we look for businesses that one, we can predict what they're going to look like with a high degree of confidence over a long period of time. So the value of any financial asset is the present value, the cash, the business will generate over its life. If you can't predict what the business looks like five years, ten years from now, fifteen years from now, you really can't figure out what it's worth. So we try to find businesses that are first predictable. And in order for the business to be predictable, it's also has to be protected from the various forces in the world. The hardest thing to do as an investor is to figure out where to turn, you know, is this a disruptive business that's going to be disrupted by two Citadel students working in a garage or is it a business that's going to survive whatever technological changes occur, AI, et cetera. That's the hardest part about investing. But once you've found a business that meets that criteria, You know, we sort of have a library of these kind of companies and then we track them on a regular basis and even the best businesses in the world at various times, sometimes the reason is completely unrelated to the business become available at really cheap prices, right? Every stock on the S&P went down, you know, something like 10 or more percent in the couple days after the tariff announcement. Some businesses are materially affected by tariffs, others are not. If you do with sufficient work, you know the business as well, because of the volatility and markets, everyone's in a wild, a really great company becomes available at a really cheap price. And we just wait for those moments. And so it's not like we're figuring it out before other people. It's just that we know a meaningful number of companies when the stock prices move significantly and become a lot cheaper. We update our work if it's still as interesting as we thought before, now available on an interesting price. We buy. many companies that meet that description that are available at a cheap price, so the other thing we do is we just concentrate, meaning we own 10 things. Most investors, a typical mutual fund might own 100 securities. Typical investors make the mistake of owning too many things, and the reason for that is diversification protects you from ignorance. If you don't know what you're doing, just do a lot of things. Well business people know a ton about their own business and they're super concentrated in their own business. If you look at through the Forbes 400, the wealthiest people in the country made their money generally in one company. They had a portfolio of one. That's an incredible degree of concentration, right? So 10, 12 stocks is more than adequate diversification if you're investing in really high quality companies. The combination of concentration, doing your homework and being good at figuring out through the risk of disruption has enabled us to be successful. You added a stock today. You added a stock today. Actually, we bought a position about a little under 20% of curts, and we had most of our investments are large-cap dominant companies with strong balance sheets, kind of long-term durable growth companies, very difficult to disrupt, and we put 10, 15% of our assets in those. Occasionally, we come across an investment that we call a mispriced, probabilistic investment, where there's a much bigger risk that we lose money, but there's a much larger potential for gain. And Hertz is sort of an example of that. So the Hertz basically, the story here is Hertz went bankrupt during COVID because people stopped renting cars and the company had a fair amount of leverage. It came out of bankruptcy like General Growth, our bad we missed it, where the equity basically remained intact. And then the management team made a, in retrospect, strategic decision that was a disaster, which they decided to buy 100,000 Tesla's and have an EV fleet. Tessas are an amazing car. They thought the market would differentiate them from their competitors. But they underestimated a few things. One, how to keep the car, you go to a gas station, you fill up the car in three minutes. Well, when the guy brings the Tesla back, it takes a lot longer for the car to kind of recharge. Also, the consumer, a lot of consumers hadn't driven a Tesla before. It's a little bit different of a driving experience. People worry about running out of power, et cetera. And so that was a problem. And they realized it. And they decided they wanted to shrink their Tesla fleet, but then Elon materially reduced the price of the model Y and as a result, the residual values of Tesla's went down. and what hurts his business has sort of two components. One component is they own a half million cars and they finance with basically 100% financing at half million cars with these securitized loans. And the way it works is if residual values of cars go down, hurts has to put more money into this securitization to keep it sort of meet the various kind of standards. Otherwise, the lenders can liquidate the cars, which of course would be a disaster for the company. So when the residual value of Tesla's went down, they had to borrow a lot of money in the business to put more money into the securitization. And that levered up the company, bit of mismanagement, coupled with this problem, and the stock got crushed down 90%. What intrigued us was a couple of things. So one new management team had come in to run the company that seemed very capable was doing the right things. The second thing is that Trump was talking about tariffs, auto tariffs. What's interesting about tariffs in the auto industry is you don't charge tariffs on used cars. And so if the price of cars is going to go up by 25% because the tariffs, the residual value of cars is going to go up. So all of a sudden, there are 500,000 cars, the residual value is going to be higher. And so this securitization, which consumed a lot of cash, well, the good news is that when and residual values are higher, you can actually take cash out of the securitized, unfortunately, in the business. And they had worked them through basically the big kind of one-time loss on the Teslas and our view is they're gonna come out of this, start generating more profits. And because this company is so levered, you know, the Tesla, I'm sorry, the Hertz stock is almost like an option, like a long-term option on this sort of turnaround. And you're paying $1 billion for the company, and there's like 12 billion of debt against the cars. There's like 4 billion of debt against the company, and the equity reminds me a bit like the general growth kind of equity. And so we bought 20% of the company. There's a 60% smart shareholder that's trying to fix it. It's for us a relatively small investment. We invested about $230 million. So it's like a 2% or so, a little under 2% position. but it can be a seven or 10x over the next three, four, five years. So, but you can lose your money, too, because there's a lot of debt. And, you know, the risk is that if, in fact, the whole tariff thing pushes into a deep, dark recession, that's not good for rental cars. So, cabit and torches. At this point, we've been through my top 10 questions, from the original 90, about one more question for one of our visitors before we close up shop. How about the gentleman I met before, the professor of some kind, too? Professor of some kind, economics finance. Some kind, yes, some kind. He, who, as a professor of supply chain management, thanks for this opportunity to get your brains with ear insights, As a leader of an organization that deals with tremendous value, high goals, and in multitude of stakeholders, how do you manage internally inside an organization any dissonance, toxicity within your workforce, delegation, and picking your leadership? Sure. So we have a very unusual investment for a number of reasons. So one, we're tiny. So Persian Square, most firms, we've got 15 billion of undermanagement today, and I think we'll be probably 30 for a couple of initiatives over the next, actually relatively short period of time. And we have 41 people, and maybe we'll go to 42 or 43. Most firms that manage similar amounts of capital have much larger firms. So every time you add an incremental person, that's how many, if you think about the kind of matrix, how many interactions they're gonna have with other people, Each incremental person is a risk. So, you know, small organizations have a competitive advantage in dealing with risks. The second thing is everyone at the firm, I interview every employee who joins Persian Square. And the most important first criterion for selection is this fundamentally a good human being. And if we think the person doesn't meet that standard, we don't care how smart they are, how qualified they are, what they got in their SAT scores, et cetera. So we, you know, is this someone I want to spend, would enjoy spending time with. And everyone in Persian Square meets that criteria. And the result is that culture is very appealing. And then we have a business that's extremely profitable. So you can make more money than any other place. We have no tolerance for toxicity of any kind. And people respect each other. The typical reception desk at a firm might have a turnover of, you know, every two months there's a new receptionist. We have two women who work at reception that have been with a firm for six or seven years, and we take very good care of them, they take a very good care of us, but the fact that there's no turnover at the reception desk tells you something about the culture of the firm. And part of that is that I've always believed, I heard a lot about watches tonight, more than I expected. That, you know, the way I describe the company is it's like a watch, okay, and your experience when you come to the door from the first person you meet affects your entire perception of the firm and that the firm would not succeed without great women, the two women at reception, without Isabel who cleans the space, without, you know, accounting team, finance team, many hedge funds or structure in such a way where the investment team is kind of elevated and and other people were sort of called like the back office. It sort of sounds like people that you want to hide. And we're a structure in such a way where everyone feels correctly that they can materially contribute to the success of the organization. And they have the opportunity to become a partner in the firm. And the result is, you know, our little firm, we sold a 10% interest in Purging Square, the management company last year for $1,5 million. The firm was valued at, you know, call it $9.5 billion pre-money And at the time, we had 14 billion of fee-paying assets. So about a 65% ratio of the value of the firm relative to the assets, BlackRock is valued at less than 1% of assets. Blackstone, an amazing firm, is valued at 15% of assets. I think the value assigned to Persian Square with the highest value as a percentage of assets of any firm and a huge part of that comes from the culture. And so I think culture really matters. Incentives really matter. Another problem with investment firms that have a lot of turnover, hedge funds, for example. People come in, talented investors. And they're hugely incentivized to put an idea in the portfolio. Because until they get an idea in the portfolio, they don't get paid. And they get paid a percentage of the profits on that idea that sounds good in practice, but it can lead to kind of bad behavior. Because your worst case in area if the idea doesn't work is you get fired and then you go to another firm. In our case, there's no individual PNLs. Everyone in the firm is compensated based on how the overall portfolio does. So there's no incentive to get your idea in the portfolio. It's as important to reject a bad idea than to get good ideas into the portfolio. And so the combination of those factors I think have led to, in terms of how we promote leaders, it just sort of just happens naturally. And we don't really need to have a hierarchical organization because of how small we are. So it's very horizontal in terms of the structure. Obviously, we have a CFO that leads the accounting and finance operation. We have a chief legal officer that leads the legal team. But it's not like the US military, it's not command and control. It's much more, I would say, partnership and collaboration. And that works very well for our business. that I think you've broken the record for attendance and longevity of speaking. Thank you so much for spending this time coming down here today. Everybody goes home with a bag of swag, so we have a a citadel pullover and a perm cap pullover for you but thank you again Bill Ackler.
