Timestamp: 2026-05-24T15:10:11.270824
Title: 【我们在用中国玩具打仗】为什么俄罗斯无人机开发商对美国科技不感兴趣油管博主采访俄无人机开发商用远程控制游戏玩家也可以当无人机飞手搬运 熟肉 BV1XhgezxEPM
URL: https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1XhgezxEPM?spm_id_from=333.788.recommend_more_video.1&trackid=web_related_0.router-related-2479604-ptszh.1779605768730.569&vd_source=0eeb7ad2c1a37164e848fbfa306683ca
Status: success
Duration: 47:34

Description:
### PART 1. 作者论点图谱（Author's Map）

#### 1. 核心论点（Core Thesis）
在俄乌高烈度军事冲突的催化下，由民营创新力量（而非传统国有军工巨头）主导的去中心化、极速战术迭代，已使俄乌两国成为全球无人机技术与应用最先进的国家，彻底重塑了现代消耗战与电子战的规则。

#### 2. 论据基础（Evidentiary Base）
*   **实物拆解与案例（物理证据）**：
    *   拆解波音公司（Boeing）的“扫描鹰”（Scan Eagle）无人机，指出其内部充斥着扎带和廉价胶水，造价高昂却工艺粗糙。
    *   分析乌克兰无人机残骸，指出其内部堆叠高度依赖中国民用供应链，且带有强烈的国家颜色政治标识。
    *   俄军光纤无人机在库尔斯克（Kursk）战役中的实战表现：通过物理光缆传输信号，彻底免疫乌军强电子干扰，成功瘫痪乌军装甲纵队。
*   **战术与工业数据（事实数据）**：
    *   伤亡比例转移：战争初期伤亡主要来自炮击，现阶段约70%的伤亡由无人机造成。
    *   成本对比：常规FPV无人机成本仅约500美元，而乌军重型“芭芭雅嘎”（Baba Yaga）农业改制无人机造价高达1.25万至3万美元；一两千美元的无人机即可摧毁数百万美元的坦克或装甲车。
    *   产能规模：单条组装线每周可产出4万架无人机。
*   **技术演进实例（技术证据）**：
    *   “柳叶刀”（Lancet）无人机面对乌军“无人机拦截器”（Interceptor）的猎杀，被迫升级后置摄像头及机器视觉（AI）规避算法。
    *   “柳标”（Geran）系列无人机脱离伊朗“见证者”（Shahed）原始设计，升级了隐身涂层、转子发动机、喷气动力及心理战警报器。
    *   网络桥接技术：前线动员兵仅负责物理摆放和起飞，身处莫斯科的专业游戏玩家（操作员）通过互联网桥接跨越数千公里实施远程精确打击。

#### 3. 逻辑推论（Logical Warrant）
*   **大前提**：现代高烈度对称战争是一场极致的性价比消耗战，武器必须具备极高的成本效益比、极快的战术适应力以及在泥泞、雨水等恶劣环境下的极端鲁棒性。
*   **小前提**：传统的国有军工企业（如俄罗斯乌拉尔机车车辆厂）和缺乏实战洗礼的西方/中国军工体系，因官僚主义、漫长的采购周期或“治安战”惯性，只能生产出昂贵、脆弱且易被干扰的武器；而民营初创设计局能够根据战场反馈，在极短的生命周期（2个月）内完成“研发-测试-部署”的闭环。
*   **结论**：唯有身处高烈度对抗一线、由民营灵活机制驱动的俄乌两国，才拥有真正符合未来战争形态的无人机技术生态。

#### 4. 明确界定的范围（Stated Scope）
作者明确将该论点的适用边界限制于**强电子干扰、高物力消耗的对称性现代战争**。
> “美国‘弹簧刀300’（Switchblade 300）就是个笑话。那东西在沙漠里追逐骆驼还行……他们（美国）自二战以来就没面对过拥有严肃武器和战术的实际对手。”

#### 5. 潜在的反对对象（Implicit Opponent）
*   迷信高造价、高精尖、长周期武器系统的**西方传统防务承包商与军事理论家**。
*   作风官僚、效率低下、人浮于事的**俄罗斯传统国有军工建制派**（SOEs）。
*   缺乏实战检验、将武器设计得像“玩具”且缺乏军规鲁棒性的**中国整机制造出口商**。

#### 6. 预期效果（Intended Takeaway）
说服读者（尤其是决策层与军事观察家）确信：战后国防工业必须进行根本性重组，将研发重心向高弹性的民营初创企业倾斜，引入市场化竞争与极速迭代机制，否则将在下一场冲突中因技术滞后而面临灭顶之灾。

---

### PART 2. 严苛但客观的学术审视（Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review）

#### 1. 强力重塑（Steelman）
作者最核心、最难被推翻的洞察在于：**“战术生命周期的极度缩短，彻底宣判了传统军工采购体制的死刑。”** 在电子战频段几乎每两个月就全面重组一次的前线，任何耗时数年论证、定型、采购的标准化武器在交付时都已沦为废铁。唯有将供应链扎根于庞大、廉价的民用电子市场，并由扁平化的民营作坊进行“周级”微调，才能在这场物种演化式的战争中生存下来。

#### 2. 最薄弱环节（Weakest Link）
该论证最致命的逻辑漏洞在于其**“民营万能论”的沙堆基础**。
> “民营开发者因为更灵活、更有动力，其创新速度远快于那些行动迟缓、人浮于事的国有企业。”

**致命性分析**：作者将民营设计局的“敏捷性”凌驾于一切之上，却刻意忽略了民营创新在本质上是**寄生性**的。民营设计局无法自主研发高精度传感器、基础材料科学、大推力航天发动机、军规级抗干扰通信协议，更无法建设像Starlink那样的低轨卫星星座。民营企业的“快速迭代”仅仅是在国家级重工业和全球基础半导体巨头铺设的“地基”上，进行应用层面的模块化拼装。一旦失去国有重工业（如乌拉尔厂提供的装甲底盘、国家电网、基础原材料动员）的兜底，民营作坊既无力承担基础科研的巨额沉没成本，也无法在真正的全面动员中组织起标准化、规模化的工业生产。

#### 3. 证据链审计（Evidence Audit）
*   **认知失调与选择性贬低**：作者一方面嘲笑“中国武器建得像玩具，缺乏实战经验，质量无法在泥泞中存活”；另一方面又承认“俄罗斯被迫完全切换到中国元器件基础，且质量与美国芯片无异，价格便宜20到100倍”。这种既贬低中国整机制造，又极度依赖中国底层供应链的论述，暴露出其为了维持“俄乌领先论”而刻意回避供应链主导权归属的矛盾。
*   **对西方武器的稻草人式攻击**：作者以“扫描鹰”上使用的扎带和胶水来否定西方军工实力，却忽视了该系统作为长航时、低声噪、防区外昼夜侦察平台的系统集成度。将一次性FPV“飞弹”的粗糙标准，与需要数千小时无故障飞行的专业侦察机进行强行对比，属于严重的度量衡对立。
*   **对乌克兰技术优势的片面归因**：作者承认乌军在体制上更灵活，却将乌克兰海军无人机（Naval Drones）的成功完全归功于Starlink（“拿走Starlink，他们的海军无人机就完蛋了”），这抹杀了乌方在流体力学设计、低雷达红外特征、多通道制导融合等领域的自主工程创新。

#### 4. 隐藏前提（Hidden Premises）
*   **前提一：战术级“低成本战损比”是衡量武器先进性的唯一标准。**
    *   *质问*：如果低成本FPV代表了武器的终极形态，那么是否意味着战略威慑、防区外打击、隐身突防和重型装甲集群等传统大国基石已失去意义？
*   **前提二：战时“野路子”的应急迭代模式可以无缝转化为和平时期的常规国防建设。**
    *   *质问*：缺乏严苛质检、全寿命周期管理、跨军种标准化协同以及安全冗余的“民营拼装无人机”，在和平时期如何解决储存老化、操作员安全和战术兼容性问题？

#### 5. 盲区分析（The Blind Side）
作者作为一名身处一线的“无人机开发者”，存在典型的**生存者偏差（Survivor Bias）与微观战术近视**。
他过度聚焦于前线15公里内的战术级对抗（FPV、光纤无人机、重型农业机），却对战略-战役级的对抗视而不见。这种视角排除了：
1.  **国家级系统工程的决定性作用**：Starlink本身就是美国庞大资本市场、商业航天工业（SpaceX）以及国家安全合同共同孵化的工业奇迹，绝非“民营小作坊”所能企及。
2.  **供应链命门受制于人**：一旦中国或西方彻底关闭底层元器件（微控制器、无刷电机、光学镜头）的灰色通道，俄乌两国的“先进民营无人机工业”将在数周内退化至弹弓阶段。

#### 6. 致命一击（One Hit Kill）
**请问谢尔盖先生**：如果民营设计局的灵活性和高性价比是未来国防的唯一解，那么在没有国家级航天工业（提供卫星中继基础设施）和全球最大民用电子帝国（提供廉价芯片与电机）的支撑下，你们的“民营设计局”能否独立生产出哪怕一架能够飞越前线、抵抗强电磁干扰的无人机？

#### 7. 决定性实证方法（What Would Settle It）
**供应链断绝测试（Supply Chain Deprivation Test）**：
在完全切断外部民用半导体和电机供应链（特别是中国民用市场和西方商业卫星链路）的封闭条件下，对比俄罗斯“民营设计局”与“国有军工集团”的研发与交付能力。如果民营设计局在数周内因缺乏替代元器件而彻底瘫痪，而国有集团凭借军规级国产化器件和全产业链条维持运转，则证明：**民营无人机的繁荣不过是战时寄生于全球化民用电子产业红利之上的虚假泡沫。**

---

### PART 3. 概念关联图谱（Mermaid Conceptual Map）

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    %% Node Definitions with Dark Text for High Contrast
    classDef coreNode fill:#FFF9C4,stroke:#FBC02D,stroke-width:3px,color:#212121;
    classDef techNode fill:#E1F5FE,stroke:#0288D1,stroke-width:2px,color:#01579B;
    classDef supplyNode fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#388E3C,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20;
    classDef warNode fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#D32F2F,stroke-width:2px,color:#B71C1C;
    classDef reviewNode fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#7B1FA2,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#4A148C;
    classDef reviewDetail fill:#FFF3E0,stroke:#F57C00,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#E65100;

    %% Subgraph 1: Core Thesis
    subgraph SG_Core ["💎 核心论点 (Citigee 主张)"]
        A["<b>核心主张</b><br/>俄乌因民营极速迭代成为全球无人机最先进国家"]:::coreNode
        A1["<b>战术主导</b><br/>无人机造成前线70%伤亡<br/>取代传统火炮成为主战武器"]:::coreNode
        A --> A1
    end

    %% Subgraph 2: Technical & Tactical Innovations
    subgraph SG_Tech ["🔄 战术与技术极速迭代 (2个月生命周期)"]
        direction TB
        T1["<b>光纤无人机</b><br/>物理光缆传输<br/>彻底免疫电磁干扰"]:::techNode
        T2["<b>远程网络桥接</b><br/>前线物理放飞<br/>莫斯科游戏玩家远程控制"]:::techNode
        T3["<b>重型农业改制 (芭芭雅嘎)</b><br/>夜间投掷反坦克地雷<br/>震慑力极强但造价昂贵"]:::techNode
        T4["<b>拦截器与反拦截</b><br/>防空无人机猎杀侦察机<br/>侦察机升级AI机器视觉避险"]:::techNode
        T5["<b>柳标 (Geran) 进化</b><br/>脱离见证者原始设计<br/>升级隐身涂层与喷气动力"]:::techNode
    end

    A -- "催生一系列" --> T1 & T2 & T3 & T4 & T5

    %% Subgraph 3: Supply Chain & Geopolitics
    subgraph SG_Supply ["⚠️ 供应链与外部技术依赖"]
        direction TB
        S1["<b>西方技术 (两极化)</b><br/>弹簧刀/扫描鹰: 昂贵且脆弱的垃圾<br/>Starlink: 支撑乌军海军无人机的圣杯"]:::supplyNode
        S2["<b>中国供应链 (自相矛盾)</b><br/>整机设计: 缺乏实战的玩具<br/>元器件: 便宜20-100倍且无法被制裁的命脉"]:::supplyNode
    end

    A1 -- "高度依赖外部" --> S1 & S2

    %% Subgraph 4: Future Paths
    subgraph SG_Future ["🔮 未来演进与体制之争"]
        direction TB
        P1["<b>路径 A: 倒退回国企垄断 (SOE)</b><br/>战后创新停滞<br/>重新陷入官僚化与PPT项目"]:::techNode
        P2["<b>路径 B: 保留民营弹性机制</b><br/>由高动力、高灵活性的<br/>私有设计局主导国防创新"]:::techNode
    end

    A -- "战争结束后面临" --> P1 & P2

    %% Subgraph 5: Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review
    subgraph SG_Review ["🚩 批判性审视 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review)"]
        direction TB
        R_WeakLink["<b>最薄弱环节: 民营万能论的寄生本质</b><br/>民营设计局无力承担基础科研与重工业兜底<br/>创新仅停留在民用元器件的拼装应用层"]:::reviewNode
        R_Evidence["<b>证据链审计: 认知失调与选择性失明</b><br/>贬低中国整机却100%依赖其芯片与电机<br/>用一次性飞弹粗糙标准贬低西方系统集成度"]:::reviewNode
        R_Blind["<b>盲区分析: 战术级生存者偏差</b><br/>忽视战役-战略级大重型装备的主导权<br/>将战时应急手段误认为和平时期常规国防标准"]:::reviewNode
        R_Kill["<b>致命一击 (One Hit Kill)</b><br/>若切断全球民用供应链与西方卫星中继<br/>民营作坊能否制造出一架飞越前线的无人机?"]:::reviewNode
        R_Settle["<b>决定性实证: 供应链断绝测试</b><br/>在极端封闭环境下对比民营与国企交付率<br/>检验民营繁荣是否为寄生于民用红利的泡沫"]:::reviewNode
    end

    %% Connect Review to Core Concepts (Dotted Red Arrows)
    A -. "遭遇批判" .-> R_WeakLink
    S2 -. "指出逻辑矛盾" .-> R_Evidence
    P2 -. "挑战可行性前提" .-> R_Blind
    R_WeakLink --> R_Kill
    R_Kill --> R_Settle

    %% Subgraph Background Colors
    style SG_Core fill:#FFFDE7,stroke:#FFD54F,stroke-width:2px,color:#212121
    style SG_Tech fill:#E1F5FE,stroke:#29B6F6,stroke-width:2px,color:#01579B
    style SG_Supply fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#66BB6A,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20
    style SG_Future fill:#ECEFF1,stroke:#90A4AE,stroke-width:2px,color:#37474F
    style SG_Review fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#AB47BC,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#4A148C
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
Would you say that Russian Ukraine are now the team-most advanced countries when it comes to drone development? Absolutely. The American sense which blades turned out to be total junk? Yes, if we're talking about what actually worked from the West in this war, it's Starlink. Well, if you take Starlink away from Ukraine, their naval drones are done. The Chinese unveiled their own version of a heavy drone. The problem with Chinese weapons is they build everything like it's a toy. Early in the war, most injuries and deaths came from artillery. Now it seems like 70% of casualties are from drones. When it comes to protecting foot soldiers, the only real defense is to run fast. Backpacked jammers are useless. Is there any counter-measure against fiber optic drones? Nope, Ukrainian vehicles roll up and the drone launches just 15 meters away. Those Ukrainian drivers don't stand a chance. There's that viral video, a Russian drone operator sitting in Moscow flying a drone somewhere over Donbass. Operators aren't exactly athletes, most are gamers, and now they're expected to lug around body armor into helmet. One of the most infamous Ukrainian drones, at least in Russia, is Baba Yuga. About a year ago, the Ukrainians figured out how to drop anti-tank mines from Baba Yuga. that explosion is very convincing. What about the Gerandrones? Ukrainians keep calling them shaheads, they're wrong. These drones are far beyond shaheads at this point. What exactly is a drone interceptor? It's a drone built specifically to take down other drones, mainly high altitude ones. Where does he drone technology going in the next 10 years? Private developers, simply because they're more flexible and more motivated can innovate much faster. Way faster than these slow clunky state-owned enterprises. where half the stuff is just there to collect the paycheck. My today's guest is Citigee, a Russian engineer and entrepreneur developing military drones for the Russian Army. At the start of the war, Russia was embarrassingly behind in drone warfare. But as the battlefield evolved, the private startups like Citigees stepped in to help Moscow catch up. Now Russia is closing the gap with Ukraine, not just in the number of drones, but in their quality and tactical innovation. What makes this conversation stand out is Sergei's perspective. He's not part of the military, which gives him a rare level of freedom to speak openly. His insights into modern and future drone warfare are sharp and at times surprisingly candid. This interview was recorded in Russian. I've translated and dubbed it into English using AI tools, made possible by the generous support of my patrons. When we start, we start to hide ourselves. It's only when the war begins that our weaknesses get exposed. If you prefer to listen in the original Russian, there is a link in the description below. Now, let's dive in. Sergey, hi. Could you tell us where we are and what do you do here? This is one of our design bureaus. I won't say exactly where it's located for obvious reasons. This is where we put together small batches of experimental models, Drones and other tech that are still in development. These prototypes are used in a wide range of scientific and technical fields, so to speak. From what you're allowed to show. What are you currently working on? I noticed you've got something over there all wrapped up. Can I take a closer look? That's one of our heavy-class experimental drones currently prepped for a test run. Unfortunately, I can't reveal much about it just yet. We're still under certain restrictions. I just noticed the propellers. I've never seen anything like that. They're made of wood. Yes, they are. Beach wood to be precise. It might seem unusual today, but wooden propellers are actually part of aviation history. That's how it all started. And in the context of real large-scale warfare military equipment becomes very utilitarian, utilitarian, very fast. A wooden propeller is around 10 times cheaper to produce than a carbon fiber one. And in terms of performance, you're only losing about four to five percent in efficiency. Plus, in Russia, wood is abundant and relatively inexpensive. These specific propellers cost us roughly $30 a piece. Russia, in Russia, there is Ural-Laguan-Zavod. A huge state-owned enterprise that's been mass producing tanks and armored vehicles for decades. Why don't Russia have something like that for drones? Instead, it seems like drones are being developed by small design bureaus like yours, and there are tons of them, mostly private initiatives, pushing prototypes all the way to the front lines. Why did things evolve this way? Well, seems like the Russian Army didn't get the memo, because the vast majority of our armed forces first heard the word UAV in 2022. when the concept finally clicked for them, but the thing is we've had a slow-burn conflict in the Donbass since 2014, and throughout that time drones were being used for reconnaissance, for dropping explosives. There were even early versions of kamikaze drones, but back then, funding was weak, and the idea of sending a drone on a one-way mission just seemed too expensive. I'll admit, I thought the same way at the time, but I was wrong. Here's the thing, when you shift the perspective and calculate based on the cost of the target being destroyed, drones turn out to be incredibly cheap with just two or three drones, costing around $1,000, $2,000, $3,000 total. You can take out an entire tank or an infantry fighting vehicle. A humvee can often be destroyed with a single hit. And by the way, a special thanks to our Western partners. Because where else could we have trained on so much of your equipment? You delivered it straight to the front and we got to study it up close. We figured out all the weak points. We learned exactly where to strike. For example, we learned where to hit the Abrams tank so that it's a real turret compartment the part that stores the ammo goes up in flames every time. We also figured out how to disable it completely. It's most vulnerable spot, the turbine, no question. So you're saying Russia's military was light to the game. The only realized recently that drones are essential that they need different types of them and a lot of them because the Russians didn't have an established drone industry. They had no choice but to turn to the private sector to small teams like yours. Moksage Lenyo, that's exactly how it played out. The Russian military completely underestimated the importance of drones, but to be fair, I think it's worth noting that no one was really prepared for this kind of war. Even the West, you know, what, with all its tech and funding, or what wasn't ready. Honestly, there is a single Western drone that's proven itself effective in this conflict. Like the American Switchblade drones, for example, they sent them to Ukraine and they turned out to be total garbage. At the Switchblade 300, it's a joke. That thing might be okay for chasing camels in the desert. If it hits an infantry soldier in proper armor, maybe it'll wound him, but it won't take him out. The Switchblade 600 is a bit more capable, but it's insanely expensive. In practice, though, it's just not worth the cost. You're burning through high-value gear for minimal gain. As far as I know, it's only been used about 10 times in Ukraine, total, that tells you everything you need to know. Now, as you remember hearing about the Phoenix Ghosts, yeah, there were quite a few names being thrown around. Another one was the scan eagle, a drone developed by Boeing. I've actually got a piece of one lying around in my lab. I don't even know how to describe it. It's like it was built in a high school workshop. It's so slap-dash on everything's held together with zip ties and cheap Chinese glue. And this is a product from Boeing, and it costs the same as half a tank. On the Ukrainian side, most of the drones you see flying are locally made. They've got models like the Leleka, the Fury, the Valkyrie. Even the Ukrainians gave up on Western drones. Sure, they were supplied with some early on, but the Russians jammed them almost immediately. After that, Ukraine started making their own. And honestly, Ukrainian drones are outperforming the entire Western lineup. Why you think the West would have some smart people working on this stuff? Of course, but the problem is structural. The Americans, for example, for decades, they've been chasing camels, as we say. They haven't faced a real military with serious weapons and tactics since World War II. Now they're up against an actual adversary in Russia. And their systems just aren't holding up. Now we know the U.S. isn't fighting us directly. They're keeping their distance, offering support here and there, doing things half-heartedly, maybe just testing the waters. defence industry and scientific community aren't even fully engaged, probably only 5% of their capacity is aimed at us, but even that small slice, it's completely flopped. That 5% has utterly failed to show any real results. I get to see a lot of captured drones, and I'm always curious to see how Ukrainian engineers are thinking so far, the most consistent thing I've seen is their obsession with national colors, yellow and blue wires everywhere. They even use colored electrical tape and flag colors, not everything's wrapped in it. These here, this is debris from a Ukrainian drone. Unfortunately it worked. Do they have a name for this drone? It's just a basic Chinese drone, the entire internal stack. It's all Chinese. We study some of their drones in great detail, others less so. This one for example had a really poor circuit design, but to be fair they do have some very good drones too. So would it be fair to say that right now Russia and Ukraine are the two most advanced countries when it comes to drone development? Absolutely. And honestly, I'd even put Ukraine slightly ahead of us, not simply because they move faster. The way their system is set up makes it much easier for private developers to work directly with the military. That allows them to design and feel new solutions more quickly. They can push a prototype to the front line in no time. Here in Russia, it's the opposite. Everything moves forward, not because the system helps, but in spite of it. It's all uphill in the West. The defense sector has always worked closely with private companies, but in the Soviet Union, private enterprise didn't exist. And Russia inherited a lot of that legacy. Our defense sector is still this closed-off, self-contained world. For a private company to break into it, you need to go through these insane contracts. of legal and bureaucratic madness, no sane person would willingly sign up for it. Yeah, but in the drone world it's different. Russia's defense ministries now buying a lot of UAVs from private firms. Yeah, we're finally hitting a turning point. Bit by bit, private developers are being pulled into the defense orbit. But when the war started, it was total chaos. It was a mess. You've said that Russia and Ukraine are at the forefront of UAV development. But at the same time, both countries import a huge number of components from China. And I saw on your channel that the Chinese recently unveiled a heavy drone, kind of their own version of the Babayiga. So clearly they're making progress, too, right? Compritui, Shedagrobo, gore, my sieti. Yes, components. That's true. Basically, we're all dipping into the same bucket of electronic parts. But the real secret isn't in the components. It's in how you put them together. It's like the Paris Dakar rally, Russia's Kamesh trucks keep winning it. But those trucks are built using Mercedes parts. Yet somehow Mercedes doesn't win, Kamesh does. This is the same story. We all have access to the same components. And then each of us, depending on our understanding and experience, builds something from them. Now, here's where China runs into trouble. They tend to make weapons that feel more like toys. The issue is they just don't have real combat experience. So they don't fully understand what military equipment actually needs to be. Real military hardware has to survive being tossed out the back of a truck into the mud, sitting in the rain for a week, getting yanked out, covered in grime, and it still has to power on and work perfectly. Chinese gear just doesn't hold up like that. Unfortunately, they haven't grasped that reality yet. It's a major weakness. That said, technologically, I think China has nearly caught up with the West. Yes, if they're not fully equal, they're only half a step behind. But because they lack wartime experience, their military designs are still lacking, where it matters. And China is supplying components to both Ukraine and Russia. Well, for Ukraine, they have access to the entire Western electronics market. Honestly, I've barely come across any Chinese chips in their drones. As for us, we had no choice. We had to fully switch over to a Chinese component base. And to be honest, we haven't regretted it. The quality of Chinese chips isn't that far off from American ones. Slightly worse maybe, but nothing critical. And the price, it's 20 to 100 times cheaper. Plus, they're always available. EBITZ sanctions don't apply to domestically produced Chinese microchips, so we can legally buy thousands of microcontrollers directly. No need to go through gray market imports or complicated third-country routes. And that's interesting because if you read the Western press, they often portray China's Russia's main military ally, like they're supplying everything needed for the front. Well, there's China's official stance, and then there's their unofficial stance. Officially, China says it follows all the sanctions and blocks military-related exports. And in some areas, that's true. For example, we can't make payments to Chinese sellers using using Russian bank cards anymore. A lot of products can't be directly imported either. There are even decrees that ban the export of motors over 700 watt, which are exactly the kinds used in heavy drones. But then there's the other side of the coin. We share a long land border with China and there are countless private companies operating in that space. These companies handle transactions, organize shipments, and move parts across the border. And honestly, when you consider how tightly everything in China is monitored and regulated, it's hard to believe that the government doesn't know what's going on. In fact, it feels more like they're turning a blind eye, or maybe even quietly approving. Because if the Chinese authorities really wanted to stop this kind of trade, they absolutely could instantly, and no one would be able to do anything about it. We're recording this interview in a moment when peace negotiations are on a rate. It's still unclear how that will end. Even if hypothetically the hot phase of the war in Ukraine wraps up this year, would you agree that no one is going to stop working on drones? It just feels like this is the weapon of the future. In any future conflict, drones will play a central role. There are stats showing that early in the war, most injuries and deaths were caused by artillery and trapnel. Now it's drones that account for about 70 percent of casualties on both sides. If you look at drones as the evolution of precision-guided weapons, then yeah, it all makes perfect sense. Ever since the end of World War II, the trend has been clear. Shift away from unguided mass firepower and move toward precision. Just blasting away with artillery isn't efficient anymore. You want the projectile to be smart. The Americans had the copperhead shell back in the day. We developed Krasnopol. Both are guided artillery rounds. Anti-tank guided missiles, air-to-surface weapons. Over time, they've all become more autonomous. Even aerial dogfights today are almost fully automated. Pilots don't even see each other, and they're firing based on blips on a radar screen. Yes, that's right. So if you place drones in that context, they're a natural next step in this long technological trajectory. The only thing that caught everyone of God was just how effective such a simple, relatively low cost piece of equipment could be. But let's be honest, the drones we're seeing now in this conflict are basically toys. Most of them run on Chinese flight controllers, motor drivers, and toy grade motors. That's what's being deployed to the battlefield. Once the war ends, the first thing that will happen is a major overhaul. These drones will be redesigned as actual military grade products. Like I said earlier, real equipment, stuff you can toss out the back of a truck into the mud, gear that can lie in the rain for a week and still boot up and work without fail. No army is going to formally adopt something that feels like it came from a toy store. Right now, we use these makeshift drones because we have to, we need to flood the front with as many strike tools as possible, and we're willing to overlook how fragile they are, but that won't last. So, yes, drone development absolutely won't stop, but drones will evolve. We'll see major progress in autonomous target recognition and guidance, because right now, electronic warfare is a serious threat. Whether it's Russian or American systems, jamming is a real problem. If a drone has to be manually piloted, all the way to the point of impact, there's a high chance it'll get jammed before it hits. And you also need a skilled pilot, someone with real training. But if the drone is automated, then you can hand the controller to, well, let's say, a monkey, someone with zero flight skills, and they'll just press a button. That's much easier. The Americans are heavily leaning into this approach now. Just look at their defense expos. All the focus is on so-called AI modules. There's no real AI in them, of course, it's mostly marketing, but they do have basic visual recognition systems already. So why don't we have real, full-blown AI and drones yet? I mean, if a drone could decide where to strike and identify its own targets, wouldn't that make electronic warfare totally useless? Yes, that's a good question. If we set aside the ethical side of things, the moral boundaries, the international agreements about not using AI to autonomously kill people, and just look at the text, we still run into limitations. Think about it, you're chatting with Chad GPT, and that system runs on a massive server complex sitting in a huge data center with enormous computing power. Now, imagine trying to fit that level of processing power into a tiny drone, and then send that drone on a one-way mission. A drone is basically a disposable weapon, and cramming that much intelligence into a throwaway piece of gear is extremely difficult. That said, the latest chips coming out like the new ones from Nvidia, they're changing the game. We're getting close to the point where it'll be cheap and viable to build drones that can truly think for themselves. From what I understand, drones aren't just being used as flying bombs anymore. Both sides are now using them for remote mind-laying. And there is something new to what people are calling sleeper drones or ambush drones. Basically, the drone flies to the south side of the island. It can be located in the west side, even if it's day-to-day, it's a way to wait. The technology is high. Basically, the drone flies to a location like the roadside and just wait. And when an enemy vehicle like a tank or APC drives by, drone wakes up and strikes. Can you talk a bit more about that? Absolutely. Remote mind-laying is an incredibly effective tactic and it's actually been in use for about a year and a half now. It's just become more widespread lately because we've got a lot more drones in circulation. Early in the war field in 1000 drones was a big deal. Now a single assembly line can crank out 40,000 drones per week. What makes This remote mind-laying, so powerful, is that it lets you remind roads the enemy thinks are safe. A supply truck might roll through, unload, and head back along the same path. But in that short window, a drone could have dropped a new mine right in the tire tracks. So the truck comes back driving on what it thinks is a cleared path, and boom, that's why this tactic is so effective. And how do you defend against something like that? But honestly, you don't. There's not much you can do, really. It's gotten to the point where people are dropping kaltrops. Yeah, kaltrops. The same spike things used against horses back in the Roman Empire. Now they're welding them from rebar. They toss them all over the roads and they shred tires. And keep in mind that tires for military trucks are very expensive. The kaltrops themselves cost next to nothing, but one handful can blow out the tires on a military truck just like that. So these sleeper drones, is there still an operator monitoring the feed watching for enemy movement and manually trigger in the strike? It was actually the Ukrainians who first started using this tactics probably about a year and a half ago. And the way they did it was honestly pretty smart. Sometimes they'd have a drone pretend to crash. Just go down somewhere near our positions and lie there like it was damaged or out of battery. And of course, that draws attention. I mean, if you spot a seemingly intact FPV drone on the ground, that's a real find. It's a trophy. Command might even give you a commendation for recovering it. Plus, it's a source of spare parts. In some cases, you can even strip it down. Reprogram it and launch it right back at the enemy. So it's tempting. So the soldiers wait an hour, maybe two, nothing happens. And someone says, all right, let's go grab it. They approach and boom, remote detonation. Same with drones placed on rooftops or hilltops tops overlooking roads. The enemy knows roughly when convoys are due to pass, so they land the drone weight. Sometimes for an hour, sometimes too tough, it depends on the battery. And when the vehicles come, the drone just takes off, flies a short distance and hits its target. That whole tactic really took off with the rise of fiber optic drones. What makes them different from standard drones is how little power they consume when idle. A regular drone, even when it's just sitting on the ground, still burns through five to ten watts because of its video transmitter. But with fiber optic drones, the video signal travels through the cable, so the energy uses minimal. And when these drones first started showing up in the course region, it was an absolute nightmare for the Ukrainians. We're talking about drones that just sit there, hidden, silent, almost invisible, and then they spring into action at the perfect moment. A Ukrainian military vehicle would drive up thinking the road is clear, and then the drone launches from just 10 or 15 meters away. The drivers wouldn't even have time to react. The drone would zip forward and hit the engine, and that's it. The vehicle disabled. Since you mentioned Kursk, Ukraine recently suffered a pretty serious defeat in that region, and drones using fiber optic guidance played a big role there. It was actually the first time we saw them use that bad scale. But time's pass since then, and now it looks like the Ukrainians have fiber optic drones do. do. So are these drones still relevant? There is still no real counter-measure against them? Because I saw something on Telegram claiming that Ukrainians have figured out how to shoot a laser down the fiber optic line and even track the operator through it. Not exactly, laser's still full-shot. They're nowhere near reliable yet. Meanwhile fiber optic cable has its own quirks. For example, it catches the sunlight and reflects like a spider web. So in theory, if you're flying a mavic drone and looking down during sunrise or sunset, you might actually see those reflections and get a rough idea of where the cable is running, but Russian operators have already adapted to that. All you need is a regular cordless drill, hit the trigger and it winds up the cable. Yeah, it eventually snaps, sure, but by that point you've usually pulled in 50-100 meters of cable, which is enough to hide your actual position. Oop, to walk nice, do I mean or say, the Tostanosta, your fiber optic drones do have two main downsides. First the cable stays on the ground, which means the enemy could follow it back to your position. It also clatters up the area and physically gets in the way. Imagine you're charging in on a motorcycle and run straight into a bundle of fiber optic wire. Not fun. And a lot of our assault teams are using bikes now because at this stage speed is more important than armor. The second issue is payload. The drone has to carry the spool of fiber and if you're using a 10 kilometer real that's a lot of weight after all that you've only got maybe 500 grams left for explosives that's not much so no fiber optic drones aren't some kind of wonder weapon but in certain conditions they're incredibly useful especially in areas where the enemies jamming systems are strong take the Ukrainian push into the Kursk region for example you know how they gained the upper hand they moved in with a massive amount of electronic warfare gear jamming everything across the spectrum. There's a lot of video showing how Russian fiber optic drones would first take out the escort vehicle, usually a pickup carrying a jamming system. So first the fiber drone hits that truck, knocks out their jamming capability, and then the regular FPV drones move in and finish off the rest of the column. Russian operators adapted to this tactic really fast. Like I said before the innovation cycle on the battlefield is insanely short right now. We're talking two months, sometimes less, whatever breakthrough you come up with today might only work once. So I'll say it again, fiber optic drones are not some wonder weapon, they're not going to win the war on their own. They're just one tool in the toolbox. They've got strengths and they've got limitations. The key is using them smartly, mainly as a way to neutralize enemy jamming. Once that's done, once you've cleared the airwaves, that's when your regular FPV drones come in and finish the job. There was that viral video, a Russian drone operator sitting in Moscow controlling the UAV somewhere over Donbass. So it looks like Russia now has true long-range remote piloting capabilities. Can you explain how that works? Is it actually revolutionary? This tech isn't exactly revolutionary. The Ukrainians have been using radio relays and internet bridges for a long time already, mostly because they've had access to Starlink and Starlink honestly is the Holy Grail. If you ask me what Western technology has worked flawlessly in this war, it's Starlink. That system has completely transformed how modern warfare looks on the ground. Take away Starlink and Ukraine's entire fleet of naval drones disappears overnight. I'm not exaggerating. A Ukrainian naval drone is basically just a Starlink terminal with a motor and some explosive strap to a small boat. That's it. Remove the Starlink and the whole thing stops functioning. Why doesn't Russia have naval drones? Well, we do have the boats, but we don't have Starlink. That's our problem. It all comes down to communications. What was the rest of the question? Now going back to your question, what we're doing is essentially an internet bridge. We create a high-speed internet connection at a certain forward position. And then from there, a radio link is established between that point and the drone. The key advantage, you don't need to send your drone operator to the front line. And that's a big deal, because drone operators, like pilots, are valuable. A skilled operator doesn't appear overnight. It takes months, even years, to train one properly. A pirata, a nievescigda, a physici, is key. Most drone operators aren't exactly built for combat. they're usually gamers. And now you're asking them to carry body armor, a helmet gear, and hike all of that up to the front lines. So we had this idea, what if we take two strong guys, guys who don't know how to fly a drone at all, but give them the gear. All they have to do is run out to the launch point, set up the equipment, and we made it super simple. Every cable and port is labeled. They club the drone down on two bricks, press a button, and radio in, ready for launch. and then a trained operator, but sitting in Moscow or Kiev, wherever, can take over and fly the mission remotely. That way one operator can work non-stop, covering a huge section of the front line without ever putting themselves in danger. The Ukrainians were the first to pull this off using Starlink. We've since caught up using our own systems in tech. That said, it's not perfect. There's a noticeable delay in both control response and video feed, even with Starlink, which is considered high speed. I don't know what the latency is like on Russia's orbit system right now, but even with Starlink, this tactic never really went mainstream. Let's talk about some of the most iconic drones of this war, you know, the names that both Russians and Ukrainians are familiar with. We've already touched on fiber optic drones, but one of the most infamous Ukrainian drones, at least here in Russia, is Baba Yigat. It's a heavy agricultural drone repurposed to drop bombs and lay mines remotely. Why has this platform stayed so relevant for so long? Is it because no one's figured out how to counter it? Or are there countermeasures now? And why doesn't Russia have a heavy drone like this of its own? For quite a while, the Russian military dismissed drones like Ukraine's vampire as something used by Ragtag militias. Not a real battlefield tool. The mindset was, come on, we've got proper aircraft, we've got guided bombs. Why bother with these little DIY drones then we can just send in ASU-34, drop a 500 kilogram bomb, and wipe everything out in one strike. That kind of thinking was pretty common, but as usual, reality hit hard. And it turned out we were wrong. The vampire drones turned out to be incredibly effective, especially after the Ukrainians, about a year ago, figured out how to modify them to drop anti-tank mines from them. And we're not talking about some small improvised charge. These are real anti-tank mines Backed with six to eight kilograms of TNT. That's a serious blast. Even if you're safely tucked into a trench or a dugout, you still feel the shockwave in your bones. If the mine hits an exposed position, or if anyone's caught out in the open, it's almost always fatal. And even those underground aren't necessarily safe. Now imagine dropping not one, but three or four of these in quick succession. You can methodically wipe out an entire fortified area, bunker by bunker. At first, soldiers were hesitant to shoot these drones down, But eventually people realised most of them aren't even manually piloted, they just fly to pre-programmed coordinates, drop their payload, and leave. That's why some started calling them shuttles or buses. There are some versions connected via Starlink, those are smarter. If they detect incoming fire, they can identify where it came from, fly over and drop a mine on that position, but that's rare. Good news is these vampire drones that despite the damage they can do, are actually fairly easy to bring down, at least with the right setup. All you need is a machine gun with a thermal scope. Drones run hot. Their batteries, motors, all of it glows and infrared. It's like watching a flare move across a dark screen. So from cover, a soldier can track them through the thermal scope and adjust aim by watching the tracer rounds. One good hit to the battery and the drone drops. That's why you see them getting shot down fairly often now, and we've adapted. On our side, Russia is already ramping up a serious response. We've got two full-scale factories currently under construction. Each focused entirely on producing heavy-class drones, similar to the vampire, using Chinese sourced components. And aside from that, there's a whole cottage industry, garage-based drone-builders, all making heavy drones in their own way, however they can. But there's a catch with the vampire drones, and they're expensive. One of these drones costs around $12,500 for a basic model. Depending on the configuration, you're looking at anywhere from $10,000 to $30,000 a unit. So obviously an average soldier can't afford that, not even if the whole platoon pulled their paychecks. And imagine if it gets shot down on its very first flight. That kind of equipment needs to be taken care of. That kind of equipment needs to be supplied centrally for free by the military itself. FPV drones. That's a different story, some of those cost around $500. That's manageable. So why do soldiers end up buying drones out of their own pocket? We'll picture this. You're sitting out at a front line outpost and you haven't been issued any drones. Or maybe you were, but you're told exactly how and when to use them. Meanwhile, you know your position could be attacked at any time. time. The enemy might try to push forward and you're left wondering, what do I fight back with? So guys scrape together money and buyer doesn't cheap FPV drones at just in case. Those drones stay with the unit and become a last resort defense tool. If the enemy breaks through a launchers and assault, you've at least got something to strike back with. That's why you sometimes see service members buying drones with their own cash. Sure, it's a drop in the bucket compared to centralized procurement, but it's happening. Now, when it comes to heavy drones like the vampire, buying them privately is basically out of the question. What about the Gerund drones? Because they've been around for quite a while now, and at first they looked a lot like Shaheid's, you know, limited range, slow speed. Ukrainian troops were even shooting them down with machine guns, but despite that, they're still being launched regularly. There are a lot of them, and you posted something on your channel about how the sound has changed. Probably the engines have been swapped out. So does that mean Russia is upgrading them to keep them relevant? The Garen drones have come a long way. The originally Iranian-shired model didn't even have stealth coating, but Russian garen's now do, and that's just one example of how far the platform has evolved. At this point, Garen has moved well beyond its Iranian origins, So when Ukrainians keep calling them shaheads, they're wrong, these aren't shaheads anymore. It's been a long time since that label made sense. And honestly, that's always been Russia's approach. We start with someone else's base model, but we improve it fast, and then keep developing it independently. For example, we now have a jet-powered version of the Jeren drone. Though the drone scene in those videos probably isn't that one, there's also a Jeren variant running on a wankel engine. That's what creates that distinct high-frequency wine people have been hearing. But there's also a theory that what's being used is a new type of gerund fitted with a built in siren. Kind of like the old German Jungkursplanes that had sound devices specifically designed to intimidate. Like to mass with empsychologically? Yes, and honestly that's the goal of any weapon or sea to intimidate and overwhelm. The American said it best, war is about violence, restraint in war is stupidity, and there's some truth to it. That said, it's important to point something out. The conflict with Ukraine is actually the first war in the past 100 years, where military casualties have significantly outnumbered civilian ones. So when people say this is a war of extermination, that's just not true. Look at Vietnam, civilian casualties were far higher than military ones. But here it's the opposite, there's no targeted campaign to wipe out Ukrainians. The data just doesn't support that narrative. You could say to use a boxing metaphor that this war, at least from the Russian side, is is being fought with gloves on. Ukrainians are definitely going all in, fighting with everything they've got, but we're still holding back in a lot of ways. In Russia, whether that's good or bad, a big shift has already happened. A huge number of people have mentally flipped the switch. They understand now that we're in a war, they live with that reality. Even if the war feels low intensity, even if it's happening far from home, no one here thinks it's somewhere else anymore. That illusion's gone and that weirdly enough gives both Russians and Ukrainians an edge compared to people in the West or Europe where life still feels peaceful and normal. Europeans don't feel this war but in Russia a lot of people are already prepared for it mentally, physically, emotionally, whether that's good or not, that's a tough question. You can see how the Russian government is trying to hold the line, it doesn't encourage open calls for destroying the enemy. In fact, it's gone so far that it's almost comical. There was this drone, one group bill. They called it the big slicer. The military said no, we're not buying anything with a name like that. Change it. So they renamed it something more neutral. The authorities clearly want to avoid stirring up blind hatred toward Ukrainians. It's kind of like how Russians used to see Germans. For decades the Soviet Union, and later Russia promoted this idea. We defeated the Nazis, not the German people. The Nazis were one thing. Ordinary Germans were something else. That message ran deep. But the moment Germany sent leopard tanks to Ukraine, they erased all of that, wiped out 70 years of Soviet efforts to separate modern Germany from the Nazis. Now, on the front lines, the mood toward Germans is incredibly negative, the same with the Poles. Americans but they'll still be taken prisoner. But if you're Polish or German, forget it, you're not getting captured. Ukrainians, though, the mindset is different. People still see them as a kind of brotherly nation. Miss Led, sure, filled with bad ideas, brainwashed by propaganda, but still ours, still family in a twisted way. But mercenaries, that's something else entirely. You came here from another country. No one invited you, no one threatened you. You showed up voluntarily, so now you're part of this and people really hate that, especially when it comes to the Germans, and their hardware. Knocking out a German tank or vehicle. That's almost a personal goal now for every Russian soldier. It's like a new tradition, a kind of family legacy. What happened to the Lanset drones? I remember there were a lot of videos showing Lansets hitting Western supplied hardware, but lately, I barely see any new footage. It seems like most of the hits are now coming from FPV drones or fiber optic drones. So, is the Lanset drone still relevant? Yeah, they're still relevant, but with the rise of interceptor drones on the Ukrainian side, their effectiveness has taken a bit of a hit, not a huge drop, but it's noticeable. What exactly is a drone interceptor? An interceptor drone is exactly what it sounds like. A drone designed to take out other drones, usually ones flying at higher altitudes. Most of them are multi-rotor types, copter-based, but some are fixed-wing, built for high speed. The main idea is it has to be faster than the target it's chasing. Ukrainians have been pairing their interceptor drones with Israeli-made radar systems. That combo has allowed them to start targeting and knocking out Russian drones like the Orlan Zala and even the Landsat. Naturally, Russia is coming up with countermeasures. For example, Zala, the company that makes the Landsats, has started adding rear-facing cameras to their recon drones. These cameras use machine vision, and the moment they detect an interceptor closing in, the drone executes an evasive maneuver. Interceptor drones, as I mentioned, are fast, but they don't have much battery life. If they don't take down the target on the first pass, they usually run out of juice. Either they self-destruct or they just fall out of the sky. Meanwhile, the recon drone just keeps flying. From a foot soldier's point of view, what's the most reliable way to deal the drones right now? rifle that I've seen a bunch of videos showing those, or maybe it's about throwing up some kind of netting. Or is it just hiding in the bushes and hoping for the best? One of the most effective tools for fighting drones is special anti-drone rounds for rifles. These are plastic cartridges that burst open when fired and release small pellets. So with each shot, you're firing three projectiles instead of one. And why rifles and not shotguns? Well, first off, carrying a shotgun plus ammo is added weight. On top of your standard rifle is just not practical. Second, today's drones often carry up to three kilograms of explosives, which is serious. So if you shoot it down with a shotgun and it explodes five meters from you, the shrapnel still hitting you. There's not much difference. You're still in the danger zone, with a rifle loaded with anti-drone rounds. You stay at a safer distance and you can keep your rate of fire up. The goal is to create a kind of saturation, a cloud of projectiles in the air that gives you a real chance of scoring a hit, even if the drone is moving fast or erratically. I've also seen both Ukrainian and Russian troops stretching nets along key supply routes. How effective is that really? They are effective, but you've got to remember, if the target is valuable, the enemy might just send two drones instead of one. The first one can rip through the net, then the second drone flies in through the opening and strikes the target. Russian fiber optic drones can also deal with nets which usually don't go all the way to the ground. So there's often a small gap at the bottom, and since fiber optic drones can fly at super low altitudes without losing connection, they can just dip under the net, crawl into the gap and wait. We've seen more and more Ukrainian videos lately showing these drones getting into those tunnel-like spaces under the netting. In what about more advanced industrial-level ways to deal with drones, where is all of that heading right now? I've read a lot about lasers being the next big thing. Um, supposedly they can shoot drones down pretty efficiently. Uh, laser, for a large distance, it's, of course, fignia, because lasers, honestly, they're kind of a joke. The atmosphere is full of moisture, and when a high-powered laser hits it, it actually We start evaporating that water, basically creating a cloud of steam, so it ends up blinding itself. That's why you see all these Israeli or American laser demos happening in ideal conditions. Dry weather, controlled environments, yeah, it works in theory. But we're not seeing widespread use for some reason. That said, at around 150 meters, lasers can be very effective at that range atmospheric interference hasn't really built up, and the air is still clear enough for the beam to You hit cleanly, unlike a machine gun, a laser doesn't need to reload. It can keep firing as long as there's battery left. Against an unarmored target, like a drone, a laser is incredibly effective. It can blind cameras, fry wiring, burn through batteries, a 500 watt laser is a great tool. And right now, both Russia and Ukraine are actively working on developing short-range laser systems just like that. When it comes to protecting individual infantrymen, only one thing helps. fast. You're not going to invent some magic fix. Backpack mounted jammers, total nonsense. There's always going to be some frequency that the jamer doesn't cover. You strap on this massive backpack with 20 antenna sticking out, and then a drone comes flying in. Now you're supposed to somehow guess what frequency it's using and turn on the right jamer. What actually happens is euphonic, flip everything on at once, and now you've just told the entire front line. Hey, here's where our jamming frequencies are. The enemy sends a drone to a different frequency when your backpack doesn't block them. And boom, it hits the guy carrying that expensive jammer. So yeah, it's useless. It's like wearing a good luck charm. The only real effect is psychological. The best defense for infantry is still smart movement. Move fast, stay unpredictable, stay in wooded areas under branches near vegetation. The places where drone might get tangled, where its contact fuses might snag on a branch and detonate before it reaches you. That's what actually works. How do you see drone technology evolving over the next 5-10 years? And where do you see your own company going in the near future? There are really two possible paths ahead. The first one is that once the war ends, people like me, the private developers, will be forgotten. Drone R&D will get handed back to the big state-owned enterprises. These companies are already sitting on subsidies. Their people get paid no matter what, so they'll design something slowly, maybe roll out an FPV drone by 2030, and then it'll go through endless rounds of testing and training exercises. That's the state path. Do you know the difference between Russian and American military exercises? In Russian exercises, Russia always wins. American drills, though the U.S. sometimes loses. There was a NATO exercise right before the war in Ukraine. The Americans played the role of the Russians, and the rest of NATO played, well, NATO, and the Americans completely crushed them, especially the Italians. It was like something out of a joke. They started making coffee in the morning, gave away their position with the smoke, and got wiped out. Maybe that's why the Americans are better at spotting weaknesses in their forces. In Russia, it takes an actual war. Only then do the flaws start to show. And then we have the second path, the one I hope we take. Is that Russia actually learns from all this, that we finally realize, even just by looking at how Western defence industries operate, that private companies drive progress. I need private firms to move faster. They're more motivated, more agile. They can spot gaps in the market and develop new tech quicker than any massive, slow-moving government company. Even if that company is full of smart people, and I mean that I'm not being sarcastic. Russia's defense sector has really sharp people. I've seen what they're capable of, especially when working under tight restrictions and with limited resources. It's impressive. It really is. But right now, they're running on adrenaline, wartime pressure. Once the war ends, they'll relax, they'll get medals, take a long vacation, and most likely everything will slow down, unless the government steps in and decides to change the model. The innovation will stall. Me personally, I'll be fine, even in the civilian sector. There's a huge amount of electronics work to be done in Russia right now. Tons of Western manufacturers have pulled out, and good riddance. We're already replacing them in most areas and we'll keep pushing forward. substitution is still official policy it hasn't gone anywhere so yeah I'll survive I'll do well no matter what but I'd really prefer to keep doing what I'm doing now it actually matters No hotel is but, of course, what is it like now? Thank you so much for the interview this was incredibly interesting and honestly your your depth of knowledge about drones is truly impressive.
