Timestamp: 2026-05-09T07:29:43.383957
Title: bodila - Jane Street Head of Technology showed the code that generates $13B pr... 2052812669346787542
URL: https://x.com/51bodila/status/2052812669346787542?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 0:00

Description:
这是一份关于该文本（关于编程语言类型系统的演讲/文章）的深度解析、批判性评论及逻辑架构图。

---

### **PART 1. 作者逻辑图图 (Author's Map)**

**1. 核心阐述 (Core Thesis)**
类型系统并非简单的“代码约束”，而是一种关于表达力与工程质量的权衡工具；虽然它带来了冗余和学习成本，但通过高表达力的设计（如泛型、类型推断、代数数据类型）和对不变性的强制要求，它在大型、复杂及高性能软件工程中提供了不可替代的正确性和可维护性价值。

**2. 证据基础 (Evidentiary Base)**
*   **对比案例：** 早期 Java 的冗余（缺乏泛型）与现代 Java 的改进；Python 的简洁性与在逻辑错误（如字典键值缺失）面前的脆弱性。
*   **语言特性：** OCaml 的类型推断（减少冗余）、Haskell 的 Foldable 接口（高阶抽象带来的复杂错误信息）。
*   **历史教训：** Tony Hoare 关于“空指针（Null Pointer）”是十亿美元错误的论述。
*   **实践经验：** Jane Street 在高性能交易系统中利用 GADT（广义代数数据类型）优化内存布局和系统安全性的实践。

**3. 逻辑授权 (Logical Warrant)**
作者采用了**经验归纳**与**功能主义推导**。通过展示动态语言在处理特定语义错误时的无力，推导出强类型系统在捕捉“逻辑缺陷”而非仅仅是“语法错误”上的优越性。同时，通过 OCaml 的例子证明，冗余并非类型系统的本质属性，而是设计好坏的问题。

**4. 声明范围 (Stated Scope)**
作者明确指出类型系统并非万能药：
> “如果你只是做一点点小事情……编写一小块 Python 通常比编写 OCaml 程序更容易。”
> “对于大型、 correctness-critical（正确性至关重要）、且有大量人员协作的代码库，建议考虑使用类型系统。”

**5. 隐含对手 (Implicit Opponent)**
*   **教条的动态语言支持者：** 认为类型系统只会降低开发速度。
*   **被糟糕类型系统吓跑的开发者：** 那些因为使用过早期 Java 或 C 语言而认为所有类型系统都既笨重又没用的开发者。

**6. 预期收获 (Intended Takeaway)**
读者应当意识到类型系统是一个光谱，不应以最差的实现来评判整个领域；应学习更具表达力的语言（如 OCaml/Haskell），并根据项目规模、性能需求和正确性要求在动态与静态语言间做出理性的工程决策。

---

### **PART 2. 刻薄且极其客观的评论 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair REVIEW)**

**1. 强化论点 (Steelman)**
作者最强有力的论点在于：类型系统将“文档”变成了“强制执行的真理”。在长期维护的代码库中，文档会过时并欺骗开发者，但类型检查器永远不会。这种将结构性约束（Invariants）直接嵌入代码语言层面的做法，确实能消除包括空指针和状态机错误在内的大量工业级隐患。

**2. 最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)**
论证高度依赖于**“开发者素质”**这一隐含变量。
> “类型系统……是另一件需要学习的事情……你必须理解这两套语言（值语言和类型语言）。”
如果开发团队的平均水平无法跨越 OCaml 或 Haskell 的抽象门槛（如 GADT 或类型推断的调试），那么类型系统带来的“表达力”反而会变成“维护黑洞”。作者忽略了在人才市场上，招聘能熟练运用这些复杂类型系统的工程师的成本，可能远超 Python 逻辑错误带来的损失。

**3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)**
作者展示的 Python 字典错误示例具有**误导性**。现代 Python（3.9+）配合 `mypy` 和强化的类型注解（Type Hints）已经可以捕捉 `Optional` 返回值未处理的情况。作者使用了一个刻意写得很糟的 Python 片段来对比经过精心设计的 OCaml 片段，这在某种程度上是“打草稿人”。

**4. 隐藏前提 (Hidden Premises)**
*   **假设“正确性”是第一优先级：** 在许多初创阶段或探索性项目中，“快速失败”和“快速迭代”比“绝无空指针错误”重要得多。
*   **假设类型系统能解决语义问题：** 类型系统只能确保“形状”匹配，无法确保“逻辑”正确。一个类型正确的程序依然可能在业务逻辑上完全错误。

**5. 盲区 (The Blind Side)**
作者未提及**“类型系统的过度设计（Type Over-engineering）”**。在高度抽象的语言中，开发者往往会为了追求“完美的类型表达”而陷入长达数小时的重构，这种“心流”虽然令人满足，但对业务交付可能毫无贡献。此外，对于高度动态的数据处理（如 JSON 解析、动态 API 响应），类型系统的“刚性”往往会成为阻碍而非助力。

**6. 致命一问 (One Hit Kill)**
如果高表达力的类型系统（如 OCaml）真的能显著提升工程效率并降低错误率，为什么在过去 40 年里，占据主流市场份额的依然是那些作者认为“设计糟糕”的语言（Java, C++, JavaScript），甚至是完全没有类型系统的语言（Python, PHP）？

**7. 如何定论 (What Would Settle It)**
需要一项针对中大型企业的大规模回溯性研究：对比使用 OCaml/Haskell 的项目与使用 TypeScript/Python（带类型检查）的项目，在相同功能复杂度下的**交付周期**、**线上事故率**以及**新员工上手时长**。

---

### **PART 3. 概念逻辑图 (Mermaid Diagram)**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    subgraph SG_Core["核心冲突：类型系统的权衡 (The Trade-off)"]
        Main["<b>编程语言选择</b><br/>类型化 (Typed) vs 非类型化 (Untyped)"]
        style Main fill:#FFD700,stroke:#DAA520,stroke-width:3px,color:#333
    end

    subgraph SG_Costs["🔴 成本与痛点 (The Costs)"]
        C1["<b>冗余 (Verbosity)</b><br/>早期Java的样板代码"]
        C2["<b>复杂性 (Confusion)</b><br/>Haskell式报错/学习曲线"]
        C3["<b>干预计划 (Interference)</b><br/>类型系统阻碍灵活设计"]
        C4["<b>学习成本</b><br/>需理解机器逻辑与类型逻辑"]
        style C1 fill:#FFCDD2,stroke:#E53935,color:#333
        style C2 fill:#FFCDD2,stroke:#E53935,color:#333
        style C3 fill:#FFCDD2,stroke:#E53935,color:#333
        style C4 fill:#FFCDD2,stroke:#E53935,color:#333
    end

    subgraph SG_Benefits["🟢 价值与回报 (The Benefits)"]
        B1["<b>性能优化</b><br/>为编译器提供数据结构信息"]
        B2["<b>错误检测</b><br/>消除空指针/语义逻辑错误"]
        B3["<b>真实文档</b><br/>类型签名即永远正确的说明书"]
        B4["<b>重构能力</b><br/>'Snap into place' 属性<br/>编译器引导修改"]
        B5["<b>强制不变性 (Invariants)</b><br/>在架构层面锁定业务规则"]
        style B1 fill:#C8E6C9,stroke:#43A047,color:#333
        style B2 fill:#C8E6C9,stroke:#43A047,color:#333
        style B3 fill:#C8E6C9,stroke:#43A047,color:#333
        style B4 fill:#C8E6C9,stroke:#43A047,color:#333
        style B5 fill:#C8E6C9,stroke:#43A047,color:#333
    end

    subgraph SG_Solutions["🔵 现代解决方案 (Modern Fixes)"]
        S1["<b>泛型 (Generics)</b><br/>提升表达力"]
        S2["<b>类型推断 (Inference)</b><br/>减少书写负担 (OCaml)"]
        S3["<b>代数数据类型 (ADT/GADT)</b><br/>精准建模数据依赖"]
        style S1 fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#1565C0,color:#333
        style S2 fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#1565C0,color:#333
        style S3 fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#1565C0,color:#333
    end

    subgraph SG_Review["🚩 批判性审视 (Critical Review)"]
        R1["<b>幸存者偏差</b><br/>Jane Street的成功可能源于精英团队而非语言"]
        R2["<b>动态语言进化</b><br/>Python Mypy/TS 缩小了差距"]
        R3["<b>工程现实</b><br/>招聘成本与生态系统完备性"]
        style R1 fill:#FFF9C4,stroke:#FBC02D,color:#333
        style R2 fill:#FFF9C4,stroke:#FBC02D,color:#333
        style R3 fill:#FFF9C4,stroke:#FBC02D,color:#333
    end

    Main -- "带来" --> SG_Costs
    Main -- "提供" --> SG_Benefits
    SG_Solutions -- "缓解" --> SG_Costs
    SG_Benefits -- "支撑" --> B4
    B2 -- "案例" --> B2_Ex["Python字典Null错误 vs OCaml Option"]
    SG_Review -. "质疑" .-> SG_Benefits
    SG_Review -. "对冲" .-> Main
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
So this is horrifying, right? It's like, it's hard to even figure out where the logic of the program is. There's so much garbage on the screen. So what the hell is going on? Well, it turns out Java does not have a built-in notion of a pair, right? You cannot just return a generic pair of things in somewhat different now, but in original Java, there was no way of doing it. So if you wanted to return a pair of things, you created a new class for the result that has two things. And then you sort of explicitly write down one of the two things and now you have a constructor and getters and kill me now. All of this extra garbage which gets in the way of writing it in a concise fashion. So Java is better than this now. We don't still have this problem to the same degree. We can now write it like this. So now Java has what are called generics, a way of expressing the fact that basically that there are type variables that you can have a thing that isn't fully specialized. Because in some sense of why didn't you have pairs in Java, it's because every time you declare a type, you had to say exactly what was in it. So you can have a general-purpose pair because you couldn't express the idea of a type whose contents, the type of the contents of a thing weren't fixed. But with the addition of generics to language you can, and now you can write something significantly more concise than what you did before. So what's the point of this example? The thing I'm trying to get across is that The degree to which the type system makes you do a lot of extra writing has to do in a kind of critical way with how expressive that language is. Types let you embed some structure that you want to, they let you say some things, they let you describe some aspects of your program and not others, and when they don't let you express the thing in a natural way, you often have to end up expressing it in an unnatural way, and that makes you have to write a lot of stuff. So having a nicely expressive programming language is one way that you can overcome to some degree this concision issue. It's worth noting there's other things you can do. So if I look at the OCaml implementation of the same thing. So if we compare the OCaml with the Python, they're kind of unch. They're not that different from each other. And on the other hand, the Java one, even the better Java one, has a bunch of extra cruft. The extra type declarations all over the place, which in some since like distract a little bit from seeing what's going on. So this is another way that you can get some of the concession back from a type language, which is you can avoid having to write all these annotations everywhere. And the technique that allows you to do that is what's called type inference. So in a language like OKMOL, instead of having to write type annotations explicitly on variables, the types can be inferred by the compiler itself. So if I go over to the OKMOL code and like asked my editor to tell me what the type of the value is. You'll see on the bottom it says, it's a function from float that returns a pair of an integer and a floating point number. And I didn't have to put any annotations there. I was able to infer that from looking at the structure of the code that I wrote. So I don't want to go into too much detail about how type inference works. But these are both having a highly expressive system and having type inference help compensate with this issue of verbosity. It's worth saying it doesn't solve all the problems. I think even so, type languages in some ways are still inherently there's some extra verbosity that's hard to avoid. Because in some places you do have to be explicit about types and that's extra information that you have to write, but just isn't necessarily a dynamic language. So the trade-off can be made much less extreme, but it's still there. So the cause confusion, that's another bad thing that types can do. Type systems are just another thing to learn, right? If you want to understand the programming language that has a type system, you have to kind of understand the underlying semantics of the value language, like the machine and how it works and how it transforms data. And then you also have to understand this language that hovers above it that constrains it, that contains essentially little facts that the compiler knows about how the language is going to execute. You have to understand these two languages. And that's an extra thing to learn and extra work to do. And also, sometimes these languages are gratuitously confusing. So let me give you a nice example of being gratuitously confusing. So if you think about a nice little python-brepple thing, so if I want to figure out the length of a list, I can write this, and it gives me a nice answer. And if I want to figure out the length of a tuple, it also gives me a reasonable answer. And then if I ask you the stupid question, like what is the length of three, it politely tells me to go to hell, and explains to me why I should go to hell. And it says, ah, you tried to get the length of an integer. That was a dumb question. ask a better question, right? So now, let's do something similar in OCaml. So an OCaml, there isn't a general purpose length function. There's a different length function, more or less for each type. So this is where we get to kind of a robustity question. So I have to do list.length of my list, or I could do, let's say, string.length of a string. And then if I try and do something dumb, like list.length of the number three, Well, I get a kind of reasonable error. It seems nice. It's a little extra writing I had to do, but it's not the end of the world. So then we want to get the best of both worlds. So let's look at Haskell, which has a significantly fancier type system than OCaml's in various ways. And it has a length function, and I can actually look at it if I know how to use Haskell, which I don't really. So the length function has a type, which I can ask for, which is, it takes anything that's foldable. I don't know what that means. And I can take a foldable thing in computer's length. Awesome. Let's look at the length of the list. One, two, three. Oh, sweet. It's foldable. Let's look at the length of the string. Hello. It's foldable. Let's look at the length of the number three. Ah! A terrible thing has occurred. And this thing could be made much worse if you ask the length of a, I mean, this is just unforgivable, actually. That's just crazy. I know how that happened. And then if I do length 1, 2, 3, almost there, almost there. Yeah, there we go. That's the whole error. So there's some complexity that's added by type systems. And different type systems add different amounts of complexity. There's a bunch of different points you can pick in the design space. You can pick relatively simple, unexpressive type systems. You can pick super expressive type system with lots of fancy features. But the more you go in that direction, sometimes you get truly like terrifying, PhD requiring error messages to understand, and even understanding someone's going on in the type system can be hard, even separate from the error messages. So you wanna look for some kind of sweet spot, a place where the type system is expressive enough to let you do things concisely and still kind of possible to understand and the error messages aren't too confusing. And that's a hard design problem. So sometimes you have programming languages that do that really well, and sometimes they do it less well. And so this confusion thing is a real problem, right? I think there's lots of language with the type systems. Some of them are well designed, some of them less well designed. And you will experience some pain along the way. Type systems can slow you down, right? I think that all in, I have lots of good things to say about how types to help you be a more effective software engineer. But if you're just doing a little small thing, it's often the case, somewhat depending on the language, but it's often the case that having to think about things at the type level will make you take a little longer to do, like it's often easier to write a little chunk of Python than it is to write a no-camel program for doing the same thing, especially a small scale. And it slows you down in the sense that, as I said before, there's new things to learn to really be an effective programmer in a type language. And then the other kind of subtle thing is that type systems can interfere with your plan. They can get in the way of the thing that you want to do. In that type systems are good at expressing some things and bad things that express bad at expressing others. And if there's something you want to do in your program that doesn't quite fit the plan that the type system has in mind, it can be extraordinarily painful. And that is, I think, again, a problem that differs between different type languages. If you look at a language with a very expressive type system, like OCaml or Haskell, you have less of that. If you look at programming language like Java, you end up with more of that. But it's an important trade off when you're thinking about what you want to do. There are some cases where it really, there are people who are, they know all of the things that can be known about how type languages go to get are put together and prefer to use untiped language for some kind of work because for some kind of thing is it frees up the design space. So I think that's a real issue with the problems of types. So how do types help? After all, I really like type systems, so I think they help for things. So we already talked about improving performance. I think that's a very important aspect. They're also really good for detecting errors, finding mistakes in your code. And I think people often underestimate how useful programming languages are finding for errors, because they judge type systems by the bad ones, right? Like Java's okay at finding errors in the some class of things that we'll find for you. But there's a wide variety of type errors that are not effectively found by a type system like Java's. One example which comes up a lot is null pointer errors. Null pointer errors basically don't happen in OCaml or Haskell or Scott. Like literally, just don't happen. And there's a whole class of bugs. Tony Hor, who invented null pointers, famously referred to it as his billion dollar mistake, because of all the cost of inventing mill pointers we've had on the software world. I think he probably underestimated it. And it turns out the programming languages with really rich and expressive type system can catch all sorts of errors that you don't necessarily imagine they can. Let me give another little example, although running short on time, so I'll probably start doing fewer examples. So here's a trivial piece of Python code. Here's what it's supposed to do. You give it two dictionaries. For every key that is in both dictionaries, you want to check whether or not they have the same data. And if they have the same data, you want to add that to a list of elements that you're building up. And those are like the list of places where you have found mismatches between the dictionaries. So that's what this code is supposed to do. But it doesn't. It does the wrong thing. If you run this piece, so if you look at the dictionaries down here that I have in the example, Among the keys that are shared between the two, only the key A shows up in both different values. But actually this is going to print out also C. It's going to report A and C. So it just gives you the wrong answer. Why does it give you the wrong answer? It gives you the wrong answer because D2.get of key returns none. And I didn't notice that it returned none. And I just compare it for a quality. And it turns out it's not equal to the thing on the other side. And so it just kind of silently gives you the wrong answer. So this is not the kind of error that people traditionally think of as being a type error. Because you type errors like, oh, I was supposed to put in an integer, but I really put in a floating point. But here, this is just a logic error in your program. You just wrote the wrong thing. So how is this a type error? Well, let's look at what the same code looks like in a camel. So you're all deeply unfamiliar with a camel, I imagine. So I don't expect you to understand the syntax, but this is not idiomatic. OK, well, this is not, I'm writing this with using the same kind of side-effectly idiom that you would use in Python, but that's not really the interesting part. So the interesting part, so I wrote this the code the same way and it has the same bug, but it has something that it didn't have in the Python version, which has a type error. So that little red line says, oh, there's something wrong. And if I look at it, it says, this expression has type A option, and A here is a type real. I mean, it's some kind of option. I don't know what has to be on the inside, but it has to be an option, and an expression was expected of type int. An option is a type that's used to explicitly reflect the fact that something might not be there. In a language like Python, or even Java, everything might not be there. Everything is potentially nullable. Everything might be absent. In Okamol, things I had to mark explicitly in their types. And the mistake we made before is now a compilation I will catch this as soon as I try and write the code. And I can just fix this by doing a pattern match. And here what I do is this is a kind of data driven case analysis. And I say, oh, if it's none, well, I'm not going to do anything. And if it's some of some data I found, well, then I will do this. Oh, and now the type error happily goes away, and the code is correct. So I don't mean to overstate the magicalness of this particular example. I think, in fact, it's almost impossible to convey the efficacy of these kinds of disciplines in a small example because they don't really play out in the small. You really see the benefits of these when you look at large scale programs. But the main purpose of the examples to highlight that the kind of mistakes you can find aren't just the simple, oh, this type didn't match that type. It's not just like you put the tubes together and like they didn't match up. You can find real semantic bugs when you do a good job of designing your program to really use types effectively. So I'm definitely over time. So let me take a few quick things and I will cut to the end and we can do questions from you all. So another very important thing that types give you is they communicate information. So the type signature that's written down on something, it's a form of documentation. It tells you something about the structure of the function or object or whatever that you're using. And it has one advantage over other forms of documentation, which is it's true. Documentation is often full of lies. People make mistakes. Both when they write the documentation in the first place and even more when they modify the code over time, types at least get it right. And the more informative your types are, the more you can encode in this guaranteed true way. So there's a lot of value with that. Another very powerful thing that types two is they give you a lot of built-in refactoring power. the kind of invariance that type systems give you, tie together parts of your program in a way that you can make modifications to one part and the type system will guide you through the process of changing the rest of it in a way that is sometimes shockingly effective. I have, you know, we have lots of interns who have come through our program who like, yeah, they learn this programming language and they think it's kind of nice and whatever and not really all that exciting. And then you get to the part of it where they wrote their project and someone code-reviewed it and told them like the 63 million things they had to modify and they went and refactored their code. And they're like, wait, but at the end, it still works. That was weird, right? And like, you know, there's not the experience you have as programmers, right? You guys are at various levels of programming now, but you all share something. I would like to think, which is you're all terrible at it, because you're human and people are bad at writing programs. And this whole experience of like being able to do a lot of complicated work in a program and it just have it work, if you have an experience for us kind of shocking and I think type systems can give you that. Again, not all type systems. Different types systems are differently effective at it. Do not judge this by your experience programming in C. Because it's got a type system but it doesn't help you in quite the same way. But depending on the language you can get lots of benefit and different languages are good at helping you in different ways. But you shouldn't guide it by the lowest common denominator. It helps you enforce invariance. A lot of building programs is figuring what's supposed to be true about them and making sure those things remain true as your program evolves. Types turn out to be good ways of doing that. There's lots of fun examples there, but I don't think I have time to go into them, but that's a, it's often useful to think about the environment for your program, and Types help automate some of that thinking. And anything you can get to be done by a computer instead of you is great. Like, program should be lazy, including trying to avoid thinking about the hard things they don't want to think about. And then, finally, tools. Tooling support was often made much better in the context of Types. And that's because Types aren't just good at explaining your program to you. They're also good at explaining your program to tools that you use. And those tools can then explain all sorts of things to you. And you see a lot of push towards type systems in the sort of JavaScript world, driven to a large degree by tools. Okay, so it's a very quick final thoughts. So don't you have to type by their worst face, right? That's I think an important thing to remember. People often come to the sort of divide between programming languages and types and untyped languages by comparing Python and Java. And that's not, those are not the only two points on the spectrum, right? There's lots of other language you can look at and there are places that have better trade-offs. And so before you judge, you should understand a little bit more about the possibilities. Don't forget that there are trade-offs. Like, I've talked a lot about how I like types and how useful they are, but there are cases where untyped languages are easier and nicer. But just like really think about it and understand what the trade-offs are, what are the problems you're doing? If you care mostly about performance of the system, and it's correctness critical, and you're doing it on a large human scale with lots of people interacting on the code base, I recommend you think about using type systems. You're doing stuff where it's really important to get something out, something simple out quick, and you want easy, accessibility to lots of people to the system, maybe untiped languages make more sense. But you should really think hard about the trade-offs when you're picking. And finally, I encourage you to learn about them. I think type systems are an interesting aspect of programming language design. I think there are surprising richness of different approaches to building type systems. And you will be kind of better and more effective consumer of programming languages if you have experience using a number of different ones that approach this problem in different ways. Okay, and I guess now, now we get to the part where it's like socially acceptable to leave. Thank you guys very much. To make sure that your question is actually a question and not a statement, I think he's fine with that. Sure. Alright, so I think there are definitely things that people have done that are somewhat better than those two terrible extremes, but I'm not, I guess, to the obvious. I am not a social scientist and I don't have lots of training in the area. My only real experience is having looked at a bunch of these results, and based on the methodology of things I've seen, I've tried to, studiously, not get excited about the results that happened to support my side of the argument, because my overall sense is the actual resource that's out there. While a lot of these good researches, as well meaning, is not terribly convincing. A thing that people have done is to try and mine open source repositories for information about error rates. And I do think there are probably good bits of information that you can extract from that. But the data is enormously biased full of all sorts of influences based on language choice is not attach uniformly and at random to application and to programmers. There's a normative of bias in what actually gets on GitHub in different languages. And so I think it's very hard to figure out how you would correct for those kind of biases. So I still think there are interesting conjectures to try and get from that. And those data sets seem to me the best kind of source for this kind of analysis I've seen, because they at least reflect real work, Whereas, people get super confused by just looking at students. So one, I've seen some interesting research on how to do a better job of generating error messages for ML-like language and also for Java that's based on looking at the kind of horribly broken code examples that people in their early programming classes enter in. And that has one, so if you tune for that, It gives you one set of suggestions for how you want to optimize. But in fact, a lot of the approaches are these kind of Bayesian error minimization kind of things. Like, let's find the smallest, simplest, highest probability explanation for what you got wrong. And that's great for some kinds of things and terrible for others, because if an experienced programmer will often modify one piece of their program and see the type errors brought up everywhere else and be like, oh, OK, these are the things I need to fix to make it match with the change I made up here. But the error, but the algorithm that was suggested by the Reachers has the property says, oh, you probably wanted to undo that change you made. It's like, no, I didn't actually, that's exactly the change I wanted to make. And you have made the wrong inference. And it was not, these kind of mistakes are not as obvious when you just look at the terrible code written by a bunch of people who've learned to program for just two months. So it's hard. I think there's some good things, but I don't know of anything great. So beware of my biases in this matter. like I had my own languages that I particularly like. I think there's a few language features that I think are outsized useful and surprisingly not as prevalent as they should be. One of them is type inference, which is it's not the biggest deal, but it just gets rid of a lot of grit in the wheels, and makes it easier to use these languages that have lots of other benefits and reduce the constant overhead. And that's getting more common. C++ now has type inference. C sharp has type inference. like more languages are getting it, so that's one thing that's becoming more common. Another, I think, very clear example is algebraic data types, which is basically, it's a simple thing on some level. Every programming language on Earth gives you the ability to do what's called a product type, which is to say, I want to put a bunch of things together in a type, like an object or a struct or a record. It's like, it's got this field in that field and the other field, this in that in that. That's a product type, everyone supports it well. A some type, also someone called algebraic data type, some type is where you have kind of the dual to that. I want this or that or the other. I want to express a disjunction, multiple different possibilities. And giving you a clean way of expressing that, and a clean way of exhaustively reasoning about those, in a way that makes sure that your case analysis is complete, is incredibly useful and surprisingly rare. Like the only, the most popular languages that have support for this are, I'd say, Swift and Scala. And beyond that, there are kind of no me. And that's all, that's relatively recent. Swift's certainly very recent. And there's almost no mainstream languages that use that. Which, to me, is kind of mysterious. I think, actually, a general interesting fact about programming language evolution is it's in some sense, shockingly slow. Good ideas, obviously, clearly good ideas, can take an amazing amount of time to land. My favorite example is garbage collection, invented in 1957. Mainstream, I'd say with Java in 95. It's like a nearly 40-year gap between invention and mainstream use. So there are some technical reasons about, ah, Java garbage collector was initially too slow for this or that, whatever. But there's really no excuse that can explain the nearly 40-year gap there. And I think with things like some type, slash algebraic data types, I think there's a similar story where my view is they're really useful and it's just a mistake that they are not more commonly available. There are some other features I think are nice that hang together well with those, but those are among the most important, I think. It's changed a surprisingly large amount. Oh, sorry, the question is how are the ways in which we use OCaml's type system changed over the last 15 years, whatever, using OCaml? It's changed in a bunch of ways. So first of all, the language itself has evolved. This has been a bunch of new features to the type system that have turned out to be useful. I think turned out to be useful because in my estimation and the estimation of other people at JN Street, I think we did not know that these features would be important. One feature that's turned out to be highly valuable is a thing called first class modules. So one of the nice things about OCaml is it has a very powerful module system, which is you think of modules or programming units just a way of grouping code and giving it interfaces. But in OKMEL and more broadly in the ML family of languages, you have a powerful system for constructing and manipulating and building new modules out of old modules. So that's a great thing that's been there since the mid-70s when these languages were invented. And but making those things first class, so you can take a module and pass it around to a function and store it in a data structure and all of that is a new feature which has turned out be important and given us sort of better and cleaner ways of expressing highly modular programs. Another language feature which turned out to be very useful is a thing called GDTs, generalized algebraic data types. If you did not feel sufficiently confused with algebraic data types alone, there are generalized algebraic data types, which have turned out to be useful in ways that we really didn't anticipate. I think that seems like it would be really good for modeling something like the abstract syntax tree of a programming language So it sounds it sounds like it sounded to me like exactly the kind of garbage you get when you allow Compiler writers to design your language and they like add stuff to the language. It's good for writing compilers But I'm a systems programmer, and I don't want to write a lot of compilers So why do I care about this? And it turns out GDT's we've discovered a really good for systems programming and particularly good for writing very high-performance performance code that gives you good control over the structure of memory and layout of memory while still giving you a pleasant programming interface. So there's some language features that we've used more and more of. I'd say in general, we've just gotten better at doing typeful design, better at encoding more invariance and structure into the type system in a way that makes libraries easier to to understand easier to use and harder to misuse. I think people often sort of have a kind of slightly negative, this is all about constraining people and restricting and type systems are about stopping people from doing things, and that's not nice and stuff. And I think you can think about it that way, but you can also think about it. It's a way of encoding structure in your libraries, which is kind of easily shareable by all of the people who are using it. And it gives you the ability to, in some sense, construct things which prove facts about your entire everywhere where this library is used. You know rules about how it's used. And that lets you reason more about your program and your library and how it can be used and how it affects the overall structure what you're doing. And that's a thing that we've pushed more and more at doing. And I think it adds a lot of value in that it makes it easier to build software that fails less often and is easier for people to use and easier to upgrade and make changes to easier to refactor and have those refactorings naturally flow through the code. What are some of the 10 points you went? So in some sense, early on, everything was easy because maybe everything is just easy at small scale, right? When you're just, you know, a few people, you can almost not know what you're doing and I totally, like, I was the one who brought OCaml into the organization like 15 or so years ago and I totally didn't know what I was doing Anywhere, I think maybe now all of the code I wrote back then has been like ripped up and burned as it should be but anywhere Anywhere remained, it's all terrible. But even though I didn't know what I was doing in some sense it was relatively easy because it was still like a nice Performance easy to understand language and at fairly small scale it was kind of easy to build systems with it. I think as time has gone on we've seen more more pain from the fact that like in any language it's not very popular, the tooling isn't so hot. And so you, in the end, have to do a lot of investment to make the tooling better. And we've done a lot of that. We do like one of the things I've been involved in is we have a tools and compilers group that focuses on improving the accountable compiler and building tools. And any organization of our size really should have some kind of tooling group. But we've had to spend more time and put more effort into that. everything from documentation generation to IDE-like features like type throwback and go to definition and auto completion. And we back here, ourselves put lots of work into that, lots of work into the compiler itself, work into the optimizer. And so the need to do that, I think it's less about any particular thing about the language, which, say, the language itself there aren't really a lot of pain points on it. I think it's mostly just like a pretty good, easy to use language, but there's lots of pain associated with the kind of minority nature of the language, the fact that it's just not very popular. So one thing that I wish was available in more places was a mainstream language that is not the result of a car crash. Almost every language that has taken, maybe every language that has tried to take these kind of features to the mainstream, has done so in a way that is made worse by the fact that it has done some good thing of like engaging deeply with the legacy ecosystem. If you look at Scala or F-sharp or Swift, Each one is the result of a nearly deadly car crash between two different programming paradigms. In Swift, it's the car crash of objective C and essentially ML. In Scala, it's the sort of Java ML car crash. F-sharp is also the kind of C, the .NET ML car crash. And those car crashes add a lot of extra complexity. And sometimes people add like yet more complexity, like Scala also had like a lot of papers like, you know, crowbar it in there, maybe more than it, like, strictly speaking needed. But I think in some sense, the thing that I like most about OCaml in particular is, it's actually a fairly simple language, right? It has, it's, you know, if you're unfamiliar to it, it seems complicated, but it's actually a lot simpler than many other mainstream languages, because in some sense, it's just kind of opted out of this whole thing. It's like, no, no, I'm just gonna be a relatively good Unix citizen and have good sea bindings and beyond that, not do anything to integrate with other tool kits. And there's a cost to that, right? Because there's a lot of benefit of being inside the GVM, say, but the kind of clarity and simplicity design is hard to recover once you've made that bargain. Shoulder-wise, how's your break data types? Abstract data types are another thing, also good. Shoulder-wise, how's the break data? Correct. I'll try. I'll try and do it relatively quickly. The if you're going to write a program that needs to consume and emit UDB packets, say, and be able to handle a few million messages a second. You have very few options. Here's how your program will work. You will have a region of memory, into which you DMA stuff from the card. You will read some bits off of that memory, and you will mutate some data structures on the side, and then you will do it again. That's it. There's no other conversation. You will not allocate anything. You will not construct a future to represent blah, blah, blah. Like, that is the physical structure of how your problem is going to run. So the question is, how do you make that livable? How do you make that like a nice programming environment? And it turns out GATTs give you a nice way without doing any allocation at all, of essentially being able to kind of get like a message and it has like a big type variable. It's like, I don't know what kind of message it could be. or a UDP packet, or no, and then you can use GADT as a way of kind of refining that type of thing, and say, oh, it's a TCP packet. Oh, and then you can further refine it by using GADT. Now I know it's a TCP packet containing a NASDAQ message. Now I know inside of that NASDAQ message, it's an add order message. Basically, GADT gives you a natural way of making what in the end is a simple flat region of bytes, and making it feel like the ordinary combination of some and product types that you get in a language like ML and ML, you often structure things as layered combinations of like, of ores and hands. It's this or this or that, and inside of this, it's this and this and that, and inside of that, it's this or this or that, this kind of layered and or structure is surprisingly powerful. But it's normally tied to a very specific memory representation which requires you to allocate things on the heap. And GTTs let you get things logically the same as that structure without doing any allocation. So that's probably abstract enough that is confusing enough for a large enough structure of the audience. I'm happy to go into more detail on that offline, but that's the flavor of why it's helpful. Let's talk about it later. It's a little complicated. So I have not used those languages. Python is also starting to do this. PHP is another language which is being done with. There's this hack language out of Facebook, which is a gradually typed PHP variant. By the way, the amount of lipstick that has been put on that pig is astonishing. Like PHP, but this is a completely unrelated rant, but I can't resist. If you look at the standard library of PHP, a number of the original functions are kind of weirdly named, like, why are they weirdly named? Is that kind of unusual names? Why is that? Well, it turns out early on in the design of the language, the hash function that was used for looking up functions from their name used sterlen as the hash, which is say, look at the length of the identifier for identifying the hash buckets, which meant if you had too many functions of the same length, there would be inefficient to look them up. And like, this, by the way, to power forward with this, you have to understand the technical problem and decide that the right solution is not to fix your hash function, but instead, to twist your standard library into a knot. And this is not totally off-topic, because in the end, we take this thing and layer a type system on it and talk about car crashes, right? That's my concern with these kind of languages, I think, in the end, you're taking two very different disciplines and trying to marry them together. And it is at least tricky to do well. Some of the results seem good. Some of the results seem complicated. So one of the really nice attempts at this is a thing called typed racket. So racket is a list slash scheme like programming language, which is designed for teaching. I highly recommend a racket. It's like you're teaching your 11 year old how to program. It's awesome. It comes with a variant called typed racket, which has a type system on it. And the problem with typed racket, although it's, in many ways, a very kind of effective technical feat, is that it tries to really match how racket programmers actually program. And here's an aspect of how racket programmers program. There's this thing called the numeric tower. When you add two numbers together, and it's too big to fit in like an ordinary integer, it just becomes a big number. If you take the ratio of two numbers, it becomes irrational. If you take the square root of a negative number, it gets, you get an imaginary number. Like it has all these different possible kinds of numerical representations unified in one very natural mathematical form. But the performance of that is no good, right? if you want to like get the single instruction that adds two instigats, you have to actually know that you're adding integers. So this is incredibly refined type system, which has a different type for integer and floating point number, and rational, and positive integer, and non-negative integer, and 0, and 1 are all types. And there's a lot of engineering in the system to make sure the system never has to actually show you the type of plus or anything like it. Because plus, well, I've known that 0 plus 0 is 0. And 0 plus 1 is 1. And positive plus, and like, non-negative plus 0 is non-negative and so on and so forth. And like, it's an incredible, like, almost every, like, basic theorem about how integers, like, line up in terms of, like, how they transform between different sets, get embedded into these basic operations. So that's one somewhat extreme example. But in general, trying to match the real world techniques used in a dynamic language, which Aren't always easily typeable is a problem, right? Type languages are compromises. They are conservative approximations. They don't get everything right. So the things that people do in a dynamic language often don't quite fit. And so making language that do both well is hard. So type rack is what I've looked at in detail and know a little bit more about. I've actually used it. Hack and flow and type script and Dart and so on and so forth. I don't understand as well. One interesting part of that world is that some of the languages, some of the types system that you will come up with, they said, you know what? We don't need to get this right. We're going to have an unsound type system. An unsound type system is one that's like it's sometimes wrong. It says things are good when they're not. It doesn't. And this has been made in part consciously because the correct thing is kind of hard to understand. So they chose the incorrect thing so that it's not confusing to people. And you can still get some of the kind of better tooling that you get by having some kind of type system. That's also a very complicated design choice. I think some regret in that community because making that design choice makes it hard to do things like better compilation because if you can't trust the type system is actually right, you can't rely on it for compilation or it's gonna take a correct program and make it incorrect. So anyway, I think it's a big complicated very interesting research area. And I don't know all the details, but I do think there's interesting work there, but I definitely don't want to program in those. If I have a choice, I want to program in language that was designed for a type system from the beginning. And we said that typifying, and before James, what was it like to explain to the team or the company that, hey, we're going to go to this thing. And so we can't move fast and break things, but we're going to move slow and get things right, man. So first of all, I should say, I think typed languages slow you down in the small and speed you up in the large. So I didn't think at the time and didn't make the argument that it was going to slow us down, but we should do it anyway. There are other things we've done that have slowed us down. We're very careful. We're especially very careful about the things that like send orders to exchanges. Because those are scary, right? You have a program that you're writing that has access to the markets in your wallet. At the same time, you should be a little afraid of that. And so we do a lot of quality control and code review and various other things that is a very clear trade-off between moving fast and breaking things and getting it right. And we lean much more in the getting it right direction. But I don't think using type languages was a trade-off of that kind for the kind of scale of things we're doing. A good example, by the way, we're dynamically type languages that we are kind of show clearly is better. We have a contest that we run sometimes on campus, sometimes with our interns, which is an electronic trading competition, where we have a little fake exchange, you connect to it, and do stuff. And people often try to use Okamel for it. And so they got it's mistake. You probably better off using Python. If you're spending 12 hours in a row hacking something together as quickly as you can, maybe if you're a really good account programmer, but you're probably not. And you should probably just use Python. That's the example of the kind of scale where I think the dynamic language clearly wins. In any case, in our world, we weren't thinking about a dynamic language versus static language. We actually, our initial trading systems were, and your surprise was still in business, VBA, in the back of spreadsheet, which is untyped. And but we were moving from that to other language like Java. And so really, between Java and OCaml, that was kind of the choice that I was involved in. And there, I think OCaml was just kind of strictly faster and easier to use than Java was. So I think that was not as hard of an argument to make. So to say what perhaps should be obvious, you need both. You need tests and types. Certainly, if you're in an untiped language, you can live without types. But if you have access to both, you should use them both. I think one dynamic you have is that types allow you to greatly reduce the number of tests that you write, because many things that you might test manually are automatically caught for you by the type system. And so you can just spend your testing time more wisely. And I think there's a, especially for simple things, you could get surprisingly far by not doing very much testing at all, like when I started and didn't know anything, I relied heavily on the type system and didn't do very much testing because I didn't really know what I was doing and the things I was doing were relatively simple at the time. And it's kind of shockingly effective. When you first start programming in ML in particular, OCaml or one of the other variants, there's this weird thing that it feels like all the bugs go away. And this is, of course, a lie, not all the bugs go away. But it's surprisingly wide variety of routine bugs that you would otherwise spend a lot of your time on just kind of vanishing a puff of smoke. But testing is super important And I think one of the ways in which our approach program has changed is we have spent a lot more time over the years investing in having good infrastructure testing, which I think is critical. I think people don't mind testing. If the tools for it are really good, but if they're not, they hate it. It doesn't feel like real work to write tests. And it's work and it's important, so you want to make it as pleasant as possible. So we put a lot of energy into that. And I think the two in some sense complement each other. Another thing that's interesting about well-type programs is they're not just right. It's not like you fix all the bugs. But in a lot of domains, well-type programs have this kind of snap into place property, which is if you've written it reasonably well and it type checks, then often just testing an example or two nails kind of all the behavior into place. You catch the wide majority of bugs. For a, again, for relatively simple things. So in some ways, type systems amplify the power of tests by adding kind of more rigidity into the behavior of the program that you're dealing with. OK? Someone new? So probably the most important class of these invariants are what I might call data dependencies. So you'll often find yourself in many languages building an object with a bunch of different fields. And then one of the fields tells you something about the kind of thing this is. And so depending on what that field is, what's in other fields is going to be different. So there's a dependency between different fields of the object, and then there are some like rules about how that is supposed to work. Like, you know, if this one is A, then this thing is supposed to be filled in and that one isn't, and if it's B, then it goes the other way, or there might be two fields that are either both populated or neither one are either populated. And so these kind of data invariants, if you only have product types, if you only have things like records and objects, You can't encode them, but once you have some types, once you have the ability to say this or that or the other, you can have essentially the dependency between what data you have and what's the tag, which there's like a name for the different cases, we call the tag, and that tag can determine what other data you have associated with it. And so that's a very common form of dependency, a very common kind of invariant that you otherwise have to make sure it's true by hand, and that you can enforce directly in the types. And those invariants, it seems like purely a thing about data, but can also capture properties of your programming. You can say, oh, when I'm in this state, I had better already have figured out the session identifier. So that kind of invariant is important, and you can sort of draw those invariants out of the structure of the data. Another very common kind of invariant has to do with kind of simple type level tagging of information. So a common security problem that people have like, you know, what's the, you know, what's that, what's his name, uh, a little Bobby Tables. And if anyone's seen the SKTD, uh, where, you know, someone, someone encodes some SQL injection attack by having what seems like an ordinary string, which gets sent to the SQL engine as if it's actual code, and you know, someone, you know, someone names their name, drop tables. And then, like, delete your whole database because they put a funny name in, uh, and what you really want to make sure is you want to make sure that when you get data from a user, You never feed it to the database without quoting it first. And this is a very simple invariant to encode in a type system. You just kind of have an abstract type that represents user data. And you have another type that represents quoted database strings. And you basically can check and make sure that the quoting, that you're only allowed to become a quoted database string if somebody actually runs the function to do the quoting. And so in a dynamically typed language, you either have to just get that right by being really careful, which is hard, or you can do it in a kind of dynamic way, where you have some extra dynamic information which allows you to check it runtime. But doing it at the type level is both more efficient and you can more efficiently discover how that should flow through your code. Because type systems basically check invariants about how different parts of your problems hook together and there's a kind of almost global flow analysis that the type checker does, where it's like, you know, I said in this one place that I needed to be quoted And then it's going to kind of force me to like pass through the coded strings until I get to the place where I decide to do the explicit conversion. And that's another very powerful kind of invariant and very common useful one. Okay, so I guess that was the last question. So, thank you very much. And thank you, Jane Street. A big round of applause for Jane Street for post-analysis.
