Timestamp: 2026-05-09T07:38:23.158628
Title: CyrilXBT - MOST PEOPLE WILL GO TO BED TONIGHT THE SAME WAY THEY WOKE UP THIS MOR... 2052565634953716091
URL: https://x.com/cyrilXBT/status/2052565634953716091?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 1:25:12

Description:
这是一份关于该投资组合管理讲座的深度分析报告。

---

### 第一部分：作者观点图谱 (Author's Map)

**1. 核心主张 (Core Thesis)**
现代投资组合理论（MPT）在现实应用中并非僵化的数学公式，而是一个动态的、以“风险分配”为核心的观察与建模过程；真正的投资艺术在于理解多样化的局限性，并警惕由于策略趋同导致的系统性“拥挤效应”。

**2. 论据支撑 (Evidentiary Base)**
*   **数学模型 (Hard Data/Math):** 引用马科维茨（Markowitz）的均值-方差模型，通过两资产组合的特殊案例（相关性 $\rho$ 在 -1, 0, 1 之间变化）推导多样化收益。
*   **生命周期模型 (Intuition Pump):** 使用“收入 vs. 支出”曲线图，直观展示投资组合管理是为了平衡个人或机构在不同生命阶段的现金流需求。
*   **历史案例 (Historical Precedent):** 提及2000年科技泡沫和2008年金融危机中股债表现的差异，作为 60/40 组合有效性与局限性的证据。
*   **物理类比 (Analogy):** 引用伦敦“千禧桥”坍塌事件，类比金融市场中由于参与者行为同步化（Synchronized）导致的结构性失效。

**3. 逻辑授权 (Logical Warrant)**
作者通过**从特殊到一般**的归纳法，先建立两资产组合的数学直觉，再推广到风险平价（Risk Parity）逻辑。其核心逻辑链条是：因为预期收益难以预测而波动率相对可测 $\rightarrow$ 所以应根据风险贡献（而非市值）分配权重 $\rightarrow$ 结合杠杆可以优化夏普比率。最后通过**辩证法**指出，当这种“优化”成为群体共识时，会转化为新的风险。

**4. 论述边界 (Stated Scope)**
*   **适用范围：** 明确提到适用于大学生个人理财、大学捐赠基金（Endowment）、养老金以及对冲基金策略分配。
*   **限制声明：** “量化金融不是机械的物理学”，模型必须不断通过观察进行反馈修正。

**5. 隐含对手 (Implicit Opponent)**
*   **教条主义者：** 那些认为只要解出马科维茨方程就能获得永恒最优组合的人。
*   **被动追随者：** 仅根据市值分配资产（如传统 60/40 策略）而不理解背后风险敞口的人。

**6. 预期效果 (Intended Takeaway)**
希望听众意识到，投资组合管理是一个“观察-建模-验证-再观察”的循环。学生不应仅仅掌握数学，更要理解市场参与者行为如何改变市场结构（即“人改变市场”）。

---

### 第二部分：严苛且公平的审查 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review)

**1. 强力辩护 (Steelman)**
该论证最精妙之处在于将**风险平价（Risk Parity）**与**系统稳定性**联系起来。作者不仅解释了如何通过杠杆和多样化来“骗取”更高的夏普比率，还极具远见地利用“千禧桥”类比警告了量化策略的自噬性。这超越了单纯的金融教学，上升到了复杂系统论的高度。

**2. 最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)**
> “风险平价……通过杠杆化，你可以在相同的标准差下获得更高的预期收益。”

**致命伤：** 这一论证极度依赖“低成本、可持续的杠杆”以及“资产间相关性的稳定性”。在流动性危机中，杠杆成本会飙升，且原本负相关的资产（如股债）会瞬间变为高度正相关。作者虽然提到了2013年的市场波动，但并未正面回答：当模型赖以生存的杠杆和相关性基石崩塌时，风险平价组合是否会比传统组合崩得更快？

**3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)**
*   **幸存者偏差：** 作者引用2008年债券大涨来支持风险平价，这是典型的回后视镜看问题。在通胀高企或加息周期（如2022年）中，股债双杀，风险平价策略会遭遇毁灭性打击，文中对此缺乏前瞻性的压力测试数据。
*   **类比失当：** 千禧桥的共振是物理层面的强制同步，而金融市场的同步是基于激励机制。作者指出了问题，但未能区分“策略拥挤”与“流动性枯竭”这两个不同维度的风险。

**4. 隐藏前提 (Hidden Premises)**
*   **前提一：** 历史波动率可以预测未来风险。
*   **前提二：** 市场存在足够的深度来容纳大规模的杠杆操作。
*   **前提三：** 投资者具有无限的心理耐受力，能扛过杠杆带来的回撤。

**5. 盲区分析 (The Blind Side)**
作者完全回避了**“尾部风险（Tail Risk）”**。标准差（Standard Deviation）只能衡量常态分布下的波动，但金融市场的毁灭往往来自标准差无法捕捉的“黑天鹅”。过分强调标准差作为风险度量，可能会诱导学生进入一种“风险已被量化”的虚假安全感中。

**6. 致命一问 (One Hit Kill)**
如果风险平价策略的本质是通过加杠杆来放大低波动资产（如国债）的收益，那么当全球进入高波动、高利率时代，这个策略是否不仅不再是“免费午餐”，反而变成了“毒药”？

**7. 判决标准 (What Would Settle It)**
需要对比在**资产高度正相关且波动率飙升**的极端环境下（如1970年代滞胀期或2022年加息季），风险平价策略与传统等权策略的实际跌幅及恢复时间。

---

### 第三部分：概念逻辑图 (Mermaid Conceptual Map)

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    subgraph SG_Goal ["🎯 投资目标与背景"]
        A["目标: 匹配生命周期现金流"] -- "收入 vs 支出" --> B["组合管理需求"]
        B -- "核心工具" --> C["现代投资组合理论 (MPT)"]
    end

    subgraph SG_Theory ["📐 MPT 核心逻辑 (Thesis)"]
        C --> D["有效边界 (Efficient Frontier)"]
        D --> E["多样化收益: 降低非系统性风险"]
        E -- "特殊案例" --> F["两资产模型: 相关性 ρ < 1"]
        F -- "结论" --> G["多样化是投资中唯一的 '免费午餐'"]
    end

    subgraph SG_Modern ["🚀 现代演进: 风险平价 (Risk Parity)"]
        G --> H["从市值分配转向风险分配"]
        H --> I["低波动资产 (债) + 杠杆 (Leverage)"]
        I --> J["目标: 最大化夏普比率 (Sharp Ratio)"]
        J --> K["资本市场线 (CML) 的线性扩展"]
    end

    subgraph SG_Risk ["⚠️ 实践中的黑暗面 (Antithesis)"]
        K -- "群体行为" --> L["策略拥挤 (Crowding)"]
        L -- "物理类比" --> M["伦敦千禧桥效应: 同步导致坍塌"]
        M --> N["系统性风险: 静态模型失效"]
    end

    subgraph SG_Critique ["🚩 批判性审视 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair)"]
        direction TB
        CR1["<b>前提质疑:</b> 历史波动率 ≠ 未来风险"]
        CR2["<b>杠杆陷阱:</b> 流动性枯竭时的强制平仓"]
        CR3["<b>盲区:</b> 标准差无法衡量尾部风险 (黑天鹅)"]
        CR4["<b>结论偏见:</b> 风险平价在加息周期可能失效"]
    end

    N -.-> CR1
    I -.-> CR2
    D -.-> CR3
    J -.-> CR4

    subgraph SG_Synthesis ["🧠 最终总结 (Synthesis)"]
        O["量化金融不是机械物理"]
        P["观察 -> 建模 -> 验证 -> 再观察"]
        Q["人类判断力: 处理非线性与整体性信息"]
    end

    CR1 & CR2 & CR3 & CR4 --> O
    O --> P
    P --> Q

    %% 样式定义
    classDef main fill:#FFF3E0,stroke:#FF9800,stroke-width:2px,color:#333
    classDef theory fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#2196F3,stroke-width:2px,color:#333
    classDef modern fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#4CAF50,stroke-width:2px,color:#333
    classDef danger fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#F44336,stroke-width:2px,color:#333
    classDef review fill:#FFFDE7,stroke:#FBC02D,stroke-width:2px,color:#333
    classDef final fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#9C27B0,stroke-width:3px,color:#333

    class A,B,C main
    class D,E,F,G theory
    class H,I,J,K modern
    class L,M,N danger
    class CR1,CR2,CR3,CR4 review
    class O,P,Q final

    style SG_Goal fill:#FFF3E0,stroke:#FF9800
    style SG_Theory fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#2196F3
    style SG_Modern fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#4CAF50
    style SG_Risk fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#F44336
    style SG_Critique fill:#FFFDE7,stroke:#FBC02D
    style SG_Synthesis fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#9C27B0
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
Let's start. So, first of all, I hope you've been enjoying the class so far, and Thank you for filling out the survey. So, we got some very useful and interesting feedbacks. One of the feedbacks is my impression. I haven't got a chance to talk to my co-lecturers or colleagues yet, but I read some comments And you were saying that some of the problems sets are quite hard. The math part may be a bit more difficult than the lecture. So I'm thinking, so this is really the application lecture. And from now on, after three more lectures by Trung Buong, there will be essentially the remainder of all applications. The original point of having this class is really to show you how math is applied, to show you those cases in different markets, different strategies, and in the real industry. So I'm trying to think, how do I give today's lecture with the right balance? This is after all the math class. Should I give you more math? Or should I, you had enough math? I mean, something like from the survey, you probably had enough math. So I'll probably want to focus a bit more on the application side. And from the survey also seems like most of you enjoyed or wanted to listen to more on the application side. So anyway, as you've already learned from Peter's lecture, the so-called modern portfolio theory. And it's actually not that modern anymore, but we still call it modern portfolio theory. So you probably wonder in the real world how actually we use it. Do we follow those steps? Do we do those calculations? And so today, I'd like to share with you my experience on that, both in the past, a different area, and today, probably more focused on the by side. Oh, come on in. Yeah. Actually, these are my colleagues from Harvard Management. So they will be able to ask me really tough questions. So anyway, so how am I going to start this class? You wonder why I handed out each of you a page. So does everyone have a blank page by now? Yeah, actually, yeah, could you also pass through? So I want every one of you use that blank page to construct a portfolio. So you say, wow, I haven't done this before. That's fine. Do it totally from your intuition. from your knowledge base as of now. So what I want you to do is to break down the 100% of what you want to have in your portfolio. OK, you said, give me choices. No, I'm not going to give you choices. You think about whatever you like to put down. Why the open? And don't even ask me the goal or the criteria based on what you want to do. And so totally free thinking. But I want you to do it in five minutes. So don't overthink it and hand it back to me. So that's really the first part I want you to show intuitively how you can construct a portfolio. So what does a portfolio mean? That I have to explain to you. Let's say for undergraduates here, so your parents give you some allowance. You manage to save $1,000 on the side. You decided to put into investments, buying stocks, or whatever, or gambling, or by lottery tickets, whatever you can do. Just break down and percentage. That could be $1,000, or you could be a portfolio manager. You have 100 billions of dollars, or whatever, or then and save. They raise some money, start a hedge fund. They may have $10,000 to start with. How do you want to use those money on day one? I just think about. And then, so while you're filling out those pages, So please hand it back to me. It's your choice to put your name down or not. And then I will start to assemble those ideas and put it on the blackboard. And sometimes I may come back to ask you a question. Why do you put this? So that's OK. I don't feel embarrassed. I'm not going to put you on the spot. But the idea is, I want to use those examples to show you how we actually connect theory with practice. I remember when I was a college student, I learned a lot of different stuff, but I remember one lecture so well. One teacher told me one thing, I still remember vividly well, so I want to pass it on to you. So how do we learn something useful, right? You always start with observation. So that's kind of the physics side, you collect the data, you ask a lot of questions, try to find patterns. Then what you do, you build models. You have a theory, you try to explain what's repeatable, what's not repeatable. So that's where the mass comes in. You solve equations sometimes, but in economics, not times unlike physics, the repeatable patterns are not so obvious. So what you do after this, so you come back to observations again, you confirm your theory, verify your predictions, and find your error, then this feeds back to this rule. And a lot of times, the verification process is really about understanding special cases. That's why today I really want to illustrate the portfolio theory, use a lot of special cases. And so can you start to hand back your portfolio construction by now? OK, so just hand back. Whatever you have, one thing on the paper, that's fine. Or many things on the paper. Or you think as a portfolio manager, or you think as a trader, or you think it's simply as a student, as yourself. All right, so I'm getting things back. I will start to write on the blackboard. And you can finish what you started. By the way, that's the only slide I'm going to use today. Because I realize if I show you a lot of slides, you probably can keep up with me. So I'm going to write down everything, just take my time. And so hopefully you get a chance to think about questions as well. OK, I think is anyone finished? Any more? OK, all right? OK, great. You guys are awesome. Let me just have a quick look to see if I missed any. Wow, very interesting. So I have to say, some people have high conviction. 100% on one of those. I think I'm not going to reach a name, so don't worry. OK, I just going to read the assets people put on. OK, so small cap, equities, bonds, real estate, commodities, those who are there, quantitative strategies, selection strategies, deep value models, food, drug sector models, energy, consumers, S&P index, ETF fund, government bonds, top hedge funds, so natural resources, timberland, farmland, checking account, stocks, cash, corporate bonds, rare coins, Lotteries, collectibles, that's very unique. And Apple stock, Google stock, gold, long-term saving, annuities. So Yahoo, Morgan Stanley stocks. I like that. OK, family trust. OK, I think that pretty much covered it. OK, so I would say that list is more or less here. So after you've done this, when you were doing this, what kind of questions came to your mind? Anyone wants to, yeah, please. How do you do it, but really? What's the criteria? And so before we answer the question, how do you do it? How do you group assets or exposures or strategies or even people by traders together? I mean, before we answer all those questions, we have to ask ourselves another question. What is the goal? What is the objective? So we understand what a portfolio management is. So here in this class, we are not talking about how to come up with a specific winning strategy in trading or investments. But we are talking about how to put them together. So this is what a portfolio management is about. So before we answer how, let's see, why? Why do we do it? Why do we want to have a portfolio? That's a very good point. So let's understand the goals of portfolio management. So before we understand goals of portfolio management, let's understand your situations, everyone's situation. So let's look at this chart. So I'm going to plot your spending as a function of your age. So when you are age zero to age of 100, so everyone's spending pattern is different. So I'm not going to tell you this is the spending pattern. So obviously, when kids are young, they probably don't have a lot of hobbies or tuition, but they have some basic needs, so they spend. Then the spending really goes up. Now your parents have to pay your tuition or you have to borrow loans, scholarships. And then you have, that's college. Then you have, you married, you have kids, you need to buy a house, buy a car, pay back, still in the loans, you have lot more spending. Then you go on vacation, you buy investments, you just have more spending coming up. So, but it goes to a certain point, it will taper down, right? So you're not gonna keep going forever. So that's your spending curve. And the other curve you think about is, what's your income? What's your earnings curve? You don't earn anything when you're just born. But you're earning. So this is spending. So let's call this 50. Your earning probably typically peaks around age of 50. But it really depends. Then you probably go down back up. So that's your earning. And do they always match well? They don't. So how do you make up the difference? You hope to have a fund, have an investment on the side which can generate those cash flows to balance your earning versus your spending. So that's only one simple way to put it. So you've got to ask about your situation. What's your cash flow look like? So my objective is I'm going to retire at age of 50. Then after age of 50, I will live free. I travel around the world and I calculate how much money I need. So that's one situation. The other situation is I want to graduate and pay back all the student loan in one year, right? So that's probably another. And typically people have to plan this out. And if I'm managing a university endowment, so I have to think about what the university is operating budget. It's like how much money they need every year join in from this fund. And then by maintaining, protecting the total fund for basically a perpetual purpose, ongoing, and keep growing it, you ask for more contributions, but at the same time, generate more return. So if you're a pension fund, you have to think about, at what time frame, a lot of the people, the workers, will retire, they will actually draw off from the pension. And so every situation is very different. I mean, let me even expand it. So you think, oh, this is all about investment. No, no, no, this is not just about investment. So I was a trader for a long time at the Morgan Stanley and later on, a trading manager. So when I had many traders working for me, the question I was facing is, how much money I need to allocate to each trader, let them trade, how much risk do they take? So they always said, I have this winning strategy. I can make lots of money. Why don't you give me more limits? No, you're not going to have all the limits. You're not going to have all the capital we can give to you. So I mean, I'm going to explain. You have to diversify at the same time. You have to compare the strategies with different parameters, liquidity, volatility, and many other parameters. And even you don't have, even you're not managing people. Let's say I was giving this. So Dan save, modding, and Andrew. So they start a hedge fund together. So each of them had a great strategy. Dan has five, Andrew has four. So they all together have 30 strategies. So they raise certain amount of money, or they just pull together the savings. But how do you decide which strategy to put more money? So on day one. So those questions are very practical. So you understand your goals. That's then you're really a lot clear watch how much risk you can take. So let's come back to that. So what is risk? As Peter explained in his lecture, so risk is actually not very well-defined. So in the modern portfolio theory, we typically talk about variance or standard deviation of return. So today, I'm going to start with that concept, but then try to expand it beyond that. So stay with that concept for now. risk, we use standard deviation for now. So what are we trying to do? So this, you're familiar with this chart, right? So return versus standard deviation. Standard deviation is not going to go negative. So we stop at zero, but a return can go to go below zero. And I'm going to reveal one formula before I go into it. I think it's useful to reveal what previously you learned. So let's say you have, I'm going to also clarify the notation as well, so you don't get confused. So let's say, Peter mentioned that Harry Markowitz's modern portfolio theory, which won him the Nobel Prize in 1990, along with Job and a few others. So it's a very elegant piece of work. But today I would try to give you some special cases to help you understand that. So let's review one of the formulas here, which is really the definition. So let's say you have a portfolio. Let's call the expected return of the portfolio is r of p equal to the sum, I weighted the sum, of all the expected returns of each asset. Basically, I linearly allocate them. Then the variance, or let's just look at the variance sigma p square. So these are vectors. This is a matrix. The one in the sigma in the middle is a covariance matrix. That's all you need to know about the mass at this point. So I want us to go through the exercise on that piece of paper. I just collected back to put you choice of investment on this chart. So let's start with one. So what is cache? Cache has no standard deviation. You hold cache. So it's going to be on this axis. It's positive return. So that's here. So let's call this cache. Where is, let me just think about another example. Where is lottery? So you buy your power bar. So where is lottery farm? Let's assume you put everything in lottery. So you're going to lose, so you're expected value. It's very close to lose 100%. And the extended deviation is probably very close to 0. So you'll be here. So somewhere, no, no, no, it's not exactly 0. So OK, fine. So maybe it's somewhere here. So not 100%, but you still have a pretty small deviation from getting losing all the money. What is coin flipping? So let's say you decide, put all your money to gamble on the fair coin flip, fair coin. So expected return is zero. What is the standard deviation of that? Good. So 100%. So we kind of got the three extreme cases covered. OK, where's US government bound? So let's just call it five-year node or 10-year bond. So it should return better than cash with some volatility. Let's call it here. What is investing in startup venture capital fund? Like pretty up there, right? So you probably get to feel very high return, but you can lose all your money. So probably somewhere here. We see buying stocks. Let's call it somewhere here. Last application lecture, you heard about investing commodity. So I trade in gold, oil. So that has higher volatility. So sometimes high returns. So let's call this commodity. And the ETFs is typically lower than single stock volatility. So because it's unlike just like index funds. So here, are there any other choices you'd like to put down this map? Okay. So let me just look at what you came up with. Real estate. Okay. Real estate, I would say probably somewhere around here, private equity, probably somewhere here, or investing in hedge funds, right, somewhere. So I think that's enough example to cover. So now, let me turn the table around and say, ask you a question. Given this map, how would you like to pick your investments? investments. So you learn about the portfolio theory as a so-called rational investor. You try to maximize your return at the same time, minimize your standard deviation. I hesitate to use the term risk because, as I said, we need to better define it. But let's just say you try to minimize this, but maximize this, the vertical axis. So let's just say you're trying to find the highest possible return for that portfolio with the lowest possible standard deviation. So will you pick this one? Will you pick this one? OK, so then eliminate those two, but for this, that's actually all possible. So then that's where we learned about the efficient frontier. So what is efficient frontier? is really the possible combination of those investments. You can push out to the boundary that you can no longer find another combination given the same standard deviation. You no longer have, you can find a higher return. So you reach the boundary. And the same is true that for the same return, you can no longer minimize your standard deviation by finding another combination. So that's called efficient frontier. How do you find it efficient frontier? That's what essentially those work were done, and it got them Nobel Prize, obviously. It's more than that, but you get the flavor from the previous lectures. So what I'm going to do today is really reduce all these to the special case of two assets. Then we can really derive a lot of intuition from that. So we have sigma r. We're going to ignore what's below this now. We don't want to be there. And we want to stay on the upright. So let's consider one special case. So again, for that, let's write out for the two assets. So what is r of p? It's w1 r1 plus y minus w1 r2, right? Very simple math. And what is sigma p? So the standard deviation of the portfolio, or the variance of that, which is a square, we know that's for the two-acetyclass special case. So let me give you further restriction, which let's consider if all 1 equal to all 2. Again, here meaning expected return. I'm simplifying some of the notations. And sigma 1 equal to 0. And sigma 2, not equal to 0. What is rho? What is the correlation? 0, right? Because you have no volatility on. OK. So what is, so what's that? It's really undefined. It's really undefined, yes. Yeah. Yeah. There's no, yeah. That's right. OK, so let's look at this. So you have sigma 2 here. Sigma 1 is 0. And you have all 1 equal to all 2. What is all of p? It's all, right? So because the weighting doesn't matter. So you know it's going to be fall along this line. So here is when weight 1 equal to 0. So you weigh everything on the second asset. Here, you weigh the first asset 100%. So you have a possible combination along this line, along this flat line. It's a very simple, right? So I'd like to start with a really simple case. So what if sigma 1 also is not 0, but sigma 1 equal to sigma 2. And further, I impose the correlation to be 0. What is this line look at? So I have sigma 2 equal to sigma 1. And all 1 is still equal to all 2. So all p is still equal to all 1 or all 2. What does this line look like? So volatility is the same. Return is also the same of each of the asset class. You have two strategies or two instruments. They are zero recorrelated. How would you combine them? So you take the derivative of this variance with regard to the weight, right? And then you minimize that. So that's what you find is, so at this point is all 1 equal to 0, or I'm sorry, W1, or W1 equal to 1. You are at this point, right? I agree, so you choose either. You will be ended up a portfolio of exposure in terms of return and variance will be right here. But what if you choose? So when you try to find the minimum variance, you actually end up, I'm not going to do the math. You can do it afterwards. You check by yourself. You will find, at this point, that's when they are equally weighted half and a half. So you get square root of that. So you actually have a significant reduction of the variance of the portfolio. By choosing half and half, zero recorrelated the portfolio. So what's that called? What's that benefit? Diversification, right? When you have less than perfectly correlated, positive recorrelated assets, you can actually achieve the same return by having a lower standard deviation. Or say, okay, that's fairly straightforward. So let's look at a few more special cases. I want really to have you establish this intuition. So let's think about what if, in the same example, what if rho equals to 1, perfectly correlated? Then you can't, right? So you ended up just at this one point. I agree. OK. What if it's totally negatively correlated? Perfectly negatively correlated. What does this line look like? So if you wait everything to one side, you're going to still get this point. But if you wait half and a half, you're going to achieve basically zero variance. I think you showed that last time. You learned that last time, OK? And so let's look beyond those cases. So now let's look at. So all one that's not equal to all two anymore, sigma one equal to zero. There's no volatility of the first asset. So that's cash, OK. So that's a riskless asset in the first one. So let's even call it R1 is less than R2. So that's the, right? You have the cash asset, then you have a non-cash asset. R1 equal to 0, 0 correlation. So let's look at what this line looks like. So R1 or 2, sigma 2 here. When you wait as at 2, 100%, you're going to get this point. When you wait as at 1, 100%, you're going to get this point. So what's in the middle of your return as a functional variance? Can someone guess? Try again? Yeah, I know. Thank you. Are there any other answers? OK. This actually, let me just derive very quickly for you. Sigma 1 equal to 0, rho equal to 0. What's sigma p? And sigma p is essentially proportional to sigma 2 with the weighting. And what's all? All is a linear combination of all 1 and all 2. So it's still, so it's a linear, OK? So because in these cases, you actually, you essentially, you return, it's a linear function. And the slope, what is the slope of this? Let's wait on the slope so we can come back to this. Because this actually relates back to the so-called capital market line or capital allocation line, OK? Because last time we talked about efficient frontier, that's when we have no riskless assets in the portfolio. When you add on the cache, then you actually, you can combine the cache into the portfolio by having a higher boundary, higher efficient frontier, and essentially higher return with the same exposure. So let's look at a couple more cases then I will tell you. So I think let's look at. So all 1 is less than or 2. And volatility is not 0. Also, sigma 1 is less than sigma 2. But it has a negative correlation of 1. So you have I said 1, I said 2. And as we know, when you pick half and a half, this goes to 0. So this is a quadratic function. You can verify and prove it later. And what if when rho equal to 0, and actually, what a sigma 1 should be here? So when rho equal to 0, this no longer goes to the variance can no longer be minimized to 0. So this is your efficient frontier, this part. I think that's enough examples of two assets for the efficient frontier. So you get the idea. So then what if we have three assets, right? So let me just touch upon that very quickly. If you have one more asset here, essentially, you can solve the same equations. And when the structural case, you can verify afterwards all the volatility are equal, and the zero correlation among the assets, you're going to be able to minimize sigma p equal to 1 over the square root of 3 of sigma 1. So it seems to pretty neat. The math is not hard and straightforward, but it gives you the idea how to answer your question, how to select them when you start with 2. So why two assets are so important? What's the implication in practice? It's actually a very popular combination. A lot of the asset managers, they simply bench mock to bonds versus equity. And the one famous combination is really 60-40. They call it 60-40 combination. 60% in equity, 40 in bonds. And even nowadays, any founder manager, You have that people still ask you to compare your performance with that combination. So the two examples seem to be quite easy and simple, but actually it's a very important one to compare. And that will lead me to get into the risk parity discussion. But before I get to risk parity discussion, I want to reveal the concept of beta and short ratio. So that's your portfolio return. This is your benchmark return of M, expected return. This is the RF is the risk-free return. So essentially, you catch return. And the offer is what you can generate additionally. So let's even not to worry about this small other terms, or not necessarily small, but for the simplicity. And then just reveal that. So that's your beta. What is your short ratio? And you can, so sometimes short ratio is also called risk weighted return or risk adjusted return. And how many of you have heard Kelly's formula? So Kelly's formula basically gives you that when you have, let's say, in the gambling example, you know your winning probability is P. So how this basically tells you how much to size up, how much you want to bet on. So it's very simple, formula. So if you have winning probability of 50-50, how much you bet on? Nothing. So if you have p equal to 100%, you bet 100% of your position. If you have a winning probability of negative 100%, so that what does it mean? That means you're 100% probability of losing it. What do you do? You bet the other way around, right? You bet the other side. So when p equal to negative, I'm sorry, actually what I said, when p equal to 0, your losing probability becomes 100%. So you bet 100% the other way. So that I leave to you to think about. That's when you have discrete outcome case. But when you construct a portfolio, this leads to the next question is, in addition to the efficient frontier discussion, is that really all about asset allocation? Is that how we calculate our weights of each asset or strategy to choose from? The answer is no, right? So let's look at the 60, 40 portfolio example. So again, two as a stock. Stock has, let's say, 60%, 40% bonds. So typically, stock volatility is higher than the bonds. And the return is expected, the return is also higher. So you're 60, 40 combinations likely fall on the higher return and the higher standard deviation part of the efficient frontier. So that's typically people do before 2000. It's a real asset manager, the easiest way or the passive way just to allocate 60, 40. But after 2000, what happened was when after the equity market peaked And the bond had a huge rally. As first Greenspan cut interest rate and before the Y2K in the year 2000, you think it's kind of funny. At that time, everybody worried about the year 2000 coming up, all the computers gonna stop working because all software were not prepared for crossing this millennial event. So they had to cut the interest rate for this event. But actually, nothing happened, so everything was OK. But then the market was plenty of cash and also after the tech bubble bursted. So that was a good portfolio. But then, obviously, in 2008, when the equity market crashed, the government-bound, high-grade market had a huge rally. And so that made people question that is this 6040 allocation of asset simply by the market value, the optimal way of doing it, even though you are following on the efficient frontier. But how do you compare different points? Is that simple choice of your objectives, your situation, or there's actually another way to optimize it? So that's where the risk parity concept was really The concept has been around, but the term was really coined in 2005. So quite recently, by guy named Edward Chen, he basically said, OK, instead of allocating 60, 40 based on market value, why shouldn't we consider allocating risk instead of a targeting return, targeting asset amount? Let's think about the case where we can have equal waiting of risk between the two assets. So risk parity really means equal risk weighting, rather than equal a market exposure. And then the further step he took was he said, OK, so this actually, OK, is equal risk. So you have lower return and the lower risk, lower standard deviation. But sometimes you will really want a higher return. How do you satisfy both? higher return and lower risk. Is there a free lunch? So he was thinking, right? So there is actually. So not quite free, but it's the closest thing. You probably heard this phrase many times. The closest thing in investment of free lunch is diversification. And so he's using a leverage here as well. But let me talk more about diversification. you a couple of more examples, okay? That phrase about the free lunch and the diversification was actually from Markowitz, or people gave him that term, okay? But anyway, so let me give you another simple example, okay? So let's consider two asset A and B. In year one, A goes up to basically doubles. And year two goes down 50%. So where does it end up? So stalled with 100%. It goes up to 200%, then you go down 50% on the new base. So returns nothing. It comes back. So S at b in year 1 loses 50% then doubles up 100% in the year 2. So S at b basically goes down to 50% and it goes back up to 100%. So that's when you look at them independently. But what if you had a 50-50 weight of the two assets? So someone is quick on mass can tell me what does it change? So A goes up like that. B goes down like that. Now you have a 50, 50, A and B. So let's look at magic. So in year 1, A, you have only 50%. So it goes up 100%. So that's up 50% on the total basis. B, you also wait 50%, but it goes down 50%. So you have lost 25%. So at the end of the year 1, you actually, so this is a combined 50, 50 portfolio, year 1 and year 2. So you start with 100. You're up to 1.25 at this point. OK. So at the end of year one, you'll rebalance, right? So you have to come back to 50-50. So what do you do? So this becomes 75, right? So you no longer have the 50-50 weight equal. So you have to sell A to come back to 50 and buy, use the money to buy B. So you have a new 50-50% weight asset. Again, you can figure out the math. But what it happens in the following year, when you have this move, this comes back 50%. This goes up 100%. You'll return another 25%, positively, without volatility. So you have a straight line. You can keep this two years. So that's so called diversification benefit. And in the 60, 40 bond market, that's really the idea people think about how to combine them. And so let me talk a little bit about the disparity and how you actually achieve them. I try to leave plenty of time for questions. So that's the return. And so let's forget about these. So let's leave cash here. So the previous example I gave you, when you have two assets, one is cash, R1, the other is not. The other has a volatility. Sigma 2, you have this point. And I said, what's in between? It's a straight line. That's your asset allocation, different combination. Did it occur to you? Why can't we go beyond this point? So this point is when we wait w2 equal to 1, w1 equal to 0. That's when you wait everything into the asset, too. But what if you go beyond that? What does that mean? So OK, so let's say can we have w1 equal to minus 1, w2 equal to plus 2? So they still add up to 100%. But what's negative 1 mean? Barrow, right? So you when short cash, 100%, you borrow money, You borrowed 100% of cash then put into to buy equity or whatever risky assets here. So you have plus 2 minus 1. What is the return look like when you do this? So rp equal to w1 r1 plus w2 r2. So minus r1 plus 2 r2, that's your return. It's this point here. What's your variance look like, or standard deviation look like, as we did before. So sigma p, simply equal to w2, sigma 2. So in this case, it's 2 sigma 2. So you're 2 times more risky, 2 times as risky as the asset 2. So let's introduce the concept of leverage. Whenever you go short, you'll introduce leverage. You actually, on your balance sheet, you have two times of asset 2. You're also sure one of the other instruments, right? So that's your liability. So your net is still one. So what this risk parity says is, OK, so we can target on the equal risk waiting, which will give you some around, let's called a 25%, a 25% equity, 75% of fixed income. So in other words, 25% of stocks, 75% of bonds. So you have lower return. But if you leverage it up, you actually have higher return, higher expected return, giving the same amount of standard deviation. you achieve by leveraging up. Obviously, you leverage up. There's other implications of that. We haven't talked about liquidity risk, but that's a different topic. So what's your short ratio look like for risk parity portfolio? So you essentially maximize the short ratio or risk adjusted return by achieving the risk parity portfolio. So 6040 is here. You actually maximize that. And this is the leverage matter. When you leverage up, the shop ratio change or not. So let's look at that straight line. This example. So we set shop ratio equal to, right? So all p, what is sigma p? Two sigma two, right? When you leverage up. So this equals to r2 minus r1 divided by sigma2. So that's the same as you're at this point. So that's essentially the slope of the whole line. It doesn't change. So now you can see the connection between the slope of this curve and the sharp ratio and how that links back to beta. So let me ask you another question. When a portfolio has higher standard deviation of sigma p, will beta to specific asset increase or decrease? So what's the relationship intuitively between beta? So let's say, look at the 6040 example. Your portfolio, you have stocks, you have bonds in it. So I'm asking you, what is really the beta of this 6040 portfolio to the equity market? When equity market becomes, when the portfolio becomes more volatile, is your beta increasing or decreasing? So you can derive that. I'm going to tell you the result, but I'm not going to do the math here. So beta equals to, you can, in this special case, is sigma p over sigma 2, all right. So so much for all these. I mean, it sounds like everything is nicely solved. And so coming back to the real world, let me bring you back, OK? So are we all set for portfolio management? We can program, make a robot to do this. Why do we need all these guys work on the portfolio management? So why do we need anybody to manage a hedge fund? You can just give money, right? So why do you need somebody, anybody to put together? Anyone heard about the London millennium bridge? So it was bridge built around that time and thought it had the latest technology and it would really perfectly absorb. You heard about soldiers marching across bridge and across the bridge. When everybody's walking in sync, you force gets synchronized. Then the bridge was not designed to take that synchronized force. So the bridge collapsed in the past. So when they designed this, they took all that into fall into account. But what they hadn't taken into account was the support of that is actually, so they allowed the horizontal move to take that tension away. But the problem is, when everybody sees more people walking in sync, then the whole bridge starts to swell, right? Then the only way to keep a balance for you, standing on the bridge, is to walk in sync with other people. So that's a survival instinct. And so I got to see, I mean, as such, my friend, the fidelity, Ren Chen. Dr. Ren Chen brought this up to me. He said, how do you think about the portfolio risk, right? This is what happened in the financial market in 2008. When you think you got everything figured out, you have the optimal strategy. When everybody starts to implement the same optimal strategy for your own as an individual, the whole system is actually not optimized. It's actually in danger. OK. So you can look at, I mean, there's actually book written on this as well, but the phenomena here is nothing new, but when he did this, what's that mean? When he actually raised that thing on the plate and put on a co-cans, what happened? Why is that so significant? They are connected, right? So they are interconnected before they are individuals. Now they are connected. And why did I show you the London Bridge and this at the same time? What this to do with portfolio management? What's this to do with portfolio management? Very well said. So if you're looking for this stationary best way of optimizing your portfolio, chances are everybody else is gonna figure out the same thing. And eventually you end up in this situation and you actually get killed. Okay. So that's the thing, the last thing. What you learned today, what you walk away with this, OK, today, is not what I want you to know that all the problems are solved, right? So you say, oh, the problem solved. Nobel Prize were given. So let's just program them. No, you actually it's a dynamic situation. You have to, so that makes the problem interesting. As a younger generation, you're coming to the field. The excitement is, there are still a lot of interesting problems out there unsolved. You can beat the others already in the field. So that's one takeaway, and what other takeaways do you think by listening to all these? That is a free lunch, yeah, so not so free, right, in the end. It's free to certain extent, but it's better than not diversified, but it depends on how you do it. There is a way you can optimize. And so I want to leave with you. I actually want to finish a few minutes earlier so that you can ask me questions. You can ask probably better to have this open discussion. And so I want you to walk away to really keep in mind is in the field of finance, and particularly in the quantitative finance, it's not a mechanical. It's not like solving physics problems. It's not like you get everything figured out. It becomes predictable. So the level of predictability is actually very much linked to a lot of other things. Physics, you solve Newton's equations. You have a controlled environment. And you know what you're getting in the outcome. But here, when you participate in the market, you are changing the market. you're adding on other factors into it. So think more from a broader scope point of view, rather than just solve the mathematics. That's why I come back to the origin of, if you walk away from this lecture, you remember what I said at the very beginning. Solving problems is about observed collecting data, building models, then verify and observe again, okay? So then with that I end right here. So questions? A huge population. And you have no stable, really, no stable equilibrium. Does it have anything to do with game theory management? It has a lot to do with game theory. But not only to game theory. So game theory, you have a pretty well-defined set of rules than two people play chess against each other. That's where computer actually can become smarter. So in this market situation, you have so many people participating was not without clearly defined rules. There are some rules, but not always clearly defined. And so it's much more complex game theory, but it's part of it. Yeah. Then? Yeah. Did you talk to anybody about why some of the risk parity portfolio did so poorly in Man-June? Great start and rise in what? Yeah. Good question. So as you can see here, what the risk parity approach does is essentially to weight more on the lower volatility asset. In this case, the question is, how do you know which asset has low volatility? So you look at historical data, which you conclude bonds have the low volatility. So you overweight bonds. That's the essence of them. So then when bonds start to sell off after Bernanke, Fed Chairman Bernanke said he's going to taper quantitative easing. So bond from a very low high yield, a very low yield level, the yield when much higher, interest rate when higher bonds got sold out. So this portfolio did poorly. So now the question is does that prove a risk parity approach wrong, or does it prove right? That's the financial crisis of 2008. Prove the risk parity approach, a superior approach, or does the June May experience prove this as a less favored approach? What does it tell us? I mean, think about it, right? So it really is inconclusive. So you observe, you extrapolate from your historical data. But what you're really doing is you try to forecast volatility, forecast return, forecast correlation, all based on historical data. It's like a lot of people use that example. It's like driving by looking at the rear-view mirror. That's the only thing you look at. You don't know what's going to happen in front of you. You have another question? Do you like other things that people are still playing similar games? Very much true, why? So people should be smaller than that. It's very difficult to discover new asset classes. It's also very difficult to discover to invent new strategies, and which you have a better winning probability. The other risk, the other very interesting phenomena, is most of the traders and the portfolio managers, the investors, They are career investors, meaning just like if I'm the baseball coach, I'm hired to coach a baseball team. My performance is really measured against the other teams when I win or lose, right? A portfolio manager or investor is also measured against the peers. So the safest way for them to do is to bench mark to an index, to the herd. So it's this very little incentive for them to get out of the crowd. Because if they are wrong, they get killed first. They lose their jobs. So the tendency is to stay with the crowd. It's for survival instinct. Again, not the other example. It's actually the optimal strategy for individual portfolio manager is really to do the same thing as other people doing. Because you're staying with the force. Can you try to answer that question yourself? What's the difference between human and computer? That's really right. What can human add value to what computer can do? The market factors and news and what's going on. So taking more information, processing information, make a judgment on more holistic approach. So it's interesting question. I had to say that computers are beating human humans in many different ways. can computer ever get to the point, actually beating human in investment. I can confidently tell you that it's not going to happen. It may happen, so I don't know any other questions. Yeah. Like, key rules in their HR, key rules in just managing people and ensuring that they're maximizing your talents not just like not just all how much money did you make but I mean are you moving forward in your career while you're there. So I think management has a rule to play in that as well not just investment. Yep I think that's that's a good point. Yep. All right so sure Jesse. What is your portfolio breakdown? It's my personal portfolio. Well I'm actually very conservative at this point because if you look at my curve of those spending and earning curve, I'm basically, I'm trying to protect principles rather than try to maximize return at this point. So I would be sliding down more towards this part rather than try to go to this corner. So I haven't really talked much about risk. What is risk? I talk about volatility or standard deviation. But as we all know, as Peter mentioned last time as well, there are many other ways to look at risk. Value at risk or half distribution or truncated distribution, or simply maximum loss you can afford to take, right? And so but looking at a standard deviation of volatility It's an elegant way. You can see we can really show you in a very simple math about how the concept actually plays out. But in the end, actually volatility is really not the best measure. You might view of risk. Why? Let me give you another simple example before we leave. So let's say you have a, this is over time. This is your accumulatively return or your dollar amount. So you start from here. If you go flat, then does anyone like to have this kind of a performance? Of course. This is very nice. You keep going up. You never go down. But what's the volatility of that? The volatility is probably not low. And then on the other hand, what I'm trying to say, when you look at expected return, matching expected return, and volatility, you can still really not selecting the best combination. Because what you really should care about is not just your volatility. And again, bear in mind, all the discussion about the modern portfolio theory is based on one key assumption here is about Gaussian distribution, normal distribution. The two parameters mean and standard deviation categorize the distribution. But in reality you have many other sets of distributions. It's a concept still for a lot of discussion and a debate. But I want to leave that with you as well. There is a same question about the world management and how do they add value. I think the people who added value in 2000, there were some people who added a tremendous amount of value in the financial crisis. And they were doing the same mathematics. But the difference was that their expected return of various assets was different from the entire broad market. So if you can just know what expected return is that, probably that is the only answer to the whole portfolio management utility. Yes. If you can forecast expected return, then you know the game. You solve the big part of the puzzle puzzle. Good to can do e-expected return, full stop. A timid one. I disagree on that. That's the only thing. Because given two managers, they have the same expected return. but you can still further differentiate them, right? So that's where all this discussion is about. But yes, expected return will drive a lot of these decisions. If you know one manager is good, expect a return three years later, he's gonna make 150%. You don't really care what's in between, right? You're just gonna write it through. But if you put the problem into problems, you don't know for sure. Yeah, you'll never be sure. I'd like to comment on that in terms of my problems that looked at in simplified studies estimating returns and volatilities and the conclusion from the problem was basically cannot estimate returns very well, even with more data over an historical period, but you can estimate volatility much better with more data. So there's really an issue of perhaps luck in getting the return estimates right with different managers, which are hard to prove that there was really expertise behind that, although with volatility, you really can have improved estimates. And I think possibly with the risk parity portfolio, those portfolios are focusing not on return expectations, but saying we're going to consider different choices based just on how much risk they have and equalize that risk. And now with the expected return, should be comparable across those grads. Yeah, so that highlights the difficulty of forecasting return, forecasting volatility, forecasting correlation. So risk parity appears to be another elegant way of proposing optimal strategy, but it has the same problems. Yeah. Actually, I also wanted to highlight, you mentioned the Kelly Criterion, which we haven't covered the theory for that previously, but I encourage people to look into that. It deals with issues of sort of multi-period investments, as opposed to single-period investments. And all this classical theory we've been discussing, or that I discussed, covers just a single-period analysis, which is an oversimplification of investment. And when you are investing over multiple periods, and the Kelly Criterion tells you how to optimally basically bet with your bankroll. And actually there's an excellent book, at least I like it, called Fortunes Formula, that talks about the origins of options theory and finance, but it does get into the Kelly Criterion. And there was a rather major discussion between Shannon, a mathematician at MIT, who advocated applying to the Kelly Criterion and Paul Samuelson, one of the major economists. Also from MIT. Also from MIT. There was great dispute about how you should do portfolio optimization. That's a great book. And a lot of characters in that book actually are from MIT. And Ed, a store, for example. And it's really about, I mean, people tried to find the Holy Grail magic formula, but not really to that extent. But finding something, you know, something a lot of people haven't figured out, but it's very interesting history. You know, big names like Shannon, very successful in other fields, in his later part of his career and life, really devoted, most of his time, studying this problem. You know Shannon, right? So now a class of Shannon. He's the father of information theory, yeah. And has a lot to do with the later information age, invention of computers, and very successful. So anyway, so we'll end the class right here. No homework for today, OK? So you just need to, yeah. OK, all right, thank you.
