Timestamp: 2026-05-09T08:10:34.388841
Title: Nainsi Dwivedi - Instead of watching a 2-hour movie, watch Warren Buffett’s most iconi... 2052691320893001748
URL: https://x.com/NainsiDwiv50980/status/2052691320893001748?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 1:08:30

Description:
---

### 第一部分：作者地图 (Author's Map)

**1. 核心主张 (Core Thesis)**
人生的长期成功与财富积累并非取决于智商的高低或频繁的尝试，而是取决于**极度克制的决策频率（打孔卡理论）**、**以诚信为核心的性格习惯**，以及**始终保持在自己的“能力圈”范围内行动**。

**2. 证据基础 (Evidentiary Base)**
*   **轶事证据 (Anecdotes)：** 引用内布拉斯加大学橄榄球赛、哈佛商学院学生简历焦虑、以及“B夫人”（Rose Blumkin）白手起家的故事。
*   **历史先例 (Historical Precedents)：** 分析20世纪初2000家汽车公司的消亡、航空公司长达百年的无利可图、以及广播与电视制造行业的兴衰。
*   **个人经验 (Personal Experience)：** 坦诚购买伯克希尔（纺织厂）和全美航空（USAir）的错误，以及错过房利美（Fannie Mae）的“错失之痛”。
*   **直觉启发 (Intuition Pumps)：** “20次打孔卡”类比、伊索寓言中“林中之鸟”的估值模型、以及“买入/做空同学10%股份”的思想实验。

**3. 逻辑授权 (Logical Warrant)**
作者通过**归纳法**（观察历史行业的兴衰规律）和**演绎法**（从“内在价值是未来现金流贴现”这一基本原理出发）构建逻辑。其核心推论是：由于预测未来极其困难，唯有通过极度的耐心、对商业竞争优势（护城河）的深刻理解以及对个人性格的磨炼，才能在概率上获得胜算。

**4. 明确界限 (Stated Scope)**
作者明确指出其建议适用于**长期财务决策**和**职业选择**。他明确拒绝预测短期市场走势，也不讨论正在买卖的具体股票，并承认其方法在“技术飞速迭代”的行业（如互联网）中可能不适用，因此他选择避开。

**5. 隐含对手 (Implicit Opponent)**
作者针对的是**短期投机者**、**过度交易的散户**、**盲目追求简历光鲜的野心家**，以及**认为智力可以弥补品格缺陷的管理者**。他反对那种认为“频繁行动等同于进步”的流行观点。

**6. 预期效果 (Intended Takeaway)**
读者应当停止“试水”式的平庸投资，转而寻找自己仰慕的雇主，并在年轻时培养诚信、大方、可靠的习惯，因为这些“习惯的锁链”将决定最终的成就高度。

---

### 第二部分：刻薄但极其公平的评析 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review)

**1. 强化防御 (Steelman)**
巴菲特的论点最强有力之处在于其**“反脆弱性”**。通过限制决策次数（打孔卡）和严守能力圈，投资者极大地降低了犯下毁灭性错误的概率。在复利的游戏中，“不亏损”远比“偶尔的暴利”更重要。他将复杂的金融问题简化为性格与习惯问题，为普通人提供了一条可操作的路径。

**2. 最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)**
该论证极其依赖一个假设：**“诚信”和“习惯”是完全可以由个体自由选择的。**
> “这一切（性格品质）都是你自己的选择。你无法改变你的基因，但你可以改变你处理这些基因的方式。”

这一观点忽略了行为经济学和心理学中的环境决定论。对于处于社会底层或资源匮乏的人来说，某些“负面习惯”（如短期短视、过度保护自我利益）往往是生存压力下的演化结果，而非简单的“错误选择”。

**3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)**
作者存在明显的**幸存者偏差**。他引用的B夫人和萨姆·沃尔顿是千万分之一的奇迹。他通过汽车行业的失败来论证“选择赢家之难”，却用可口可乐和吉列的成功来论证“能力圈”的可靠。然而，许多在10-20年前看起来拥有强大“护城河”的公司（如柯达、诺基亚），最终也因技术范式转移而崩塌。作者对自己无法理解科技股的辩解，实际上掩盖了其模型在处理“非线性突变”时的无力。

**4. 隐藏前提 (Hidden Premises)**
该论证要求读者接受一个前提：**市场定价在长期内必然回归内在价值。** 如果全球经济进入长期的结构性失灵或地缘政治崩溃，所谓的“内在价值”贴现模型将彻底失效。此外，他假设“仰慕雇主”是可能的，但在高度资本化的今天，许多初入职场者并没有“选择仰慕对象”的奢侈，生存压力迫使他们不得不先“填补简历”。

**5. 盲区 (The Blind Side)**
**机会成本的悖论。** 巴菲特提倡“打孔卡”以减少错误，但这可能导致极度的**保守主义**。在科技爆发的时代，这种策略会让人错过整个时代的红利（如他承认错过微软和Google）。虽然他认为这不在其能力圈内，但对于年轻人而言，拒绝进入高增长、高风险的“新圈子”可能本身就是最大的风险。

**6. 致命一问 (One Hit Kill)**
如果所有投资者都遵循您的“打孔卡”理论，只在极少数确定的机会上出手，那么市场的流动性将枯竭，价格发现机制将失效，您所依赖的“利用他人贪婪与恐惧”的机会是否还将存在？

**7. 如何定论 (What Would Settle It)**
需要一项长达50年的对照实验：一组投资者严格遵守“20次打孔卡”准则，另一组则在宽泛的指数化框架下进行多元化配置。如果前者在扣除通胀和潜在的机会成本（错过新产业）后，其风险调整后的收益并未显著超越后者，那么“打孔卡”可能只是一种心理安慰，而非普适的致富法则。

---

### 第三部分：视觉化概念地图 (Mermaid Conceptual Map)

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    subgraph SG_Goal["🎯 终极目标：长期的财富与人生成功"]
        Goal["<b>内在价值的实现</b><br/>(Intrinsic Value)"]
    end

    subgraph SG_Philosophy["🏛️ 巴菲特的成功支柱"]
        direction TB
        P1["<b>能力圈 (Circle of Competence)</b><br/>只做自己能看透20年经济特性的生意"]
        P2["<b>打孔卡策略 (20-Punch Card)</b><br/>限制决策频率，提高决策质量"]
        P3["<b>性格/习惯 (Character/Habit)</b><br/>诚信、主动、精力 (诚信是前两者的乘数)"]
    end

    subgraph SG_Investment["💰 投资逻辑"]
        I1["<b>估值模型</b><br/>伊索寓言: 林中之鸟 (贴现现金流)"]
        I2["<b>识别输家</b><br/>避开竞争惨烈、无利可图的行业 (航空/早期汽车)"]
        I3["<b>利用情绪</b><br/>在他人恐惧时贪婪，在他人贪婪时恐惧"]
    end

    subgraph SG_Career["💼 职业建议"]
        C1["<b>选择雇主</b><br/>为仰慕的人工作，而非为了简历"]
        C2["<b>习惯养成</b><br/>年轻时形成的习惯是难以打破的锁链"]
    end

    subgraph SG_Critique["🚩 批判性审视 (Hostile Review)"]
        direction TB
        R1["<b>幸存者偏差</b><br/>B夫人的奇迹不可复制"]
        R2["<b>机会成本</b><br/>保守策略可能错过科技范式转移"]
        R3["<b>环境忽略</b><br/>假设性格完全由意志决定，忽视社会压力"]
        R4["<b>模型局限</b><br/>DCF模型在非线性变局中失效"]
    end

    %% 逻辑连接
    P1 -- "指导" --> I2
    P2 -- "强制执行" --> I1
    P3 -- "驱动" --> C1 & C2
    I1 & I2 & I3 --> Goal
    C1 & C2 --> Goal

    %% 批判指向
    I1 -.-> R4
    P1 -.-> R2
    P3 -.-> R3
    C2 -.-> R1

    %% 样式定义
    classDef main fill:#FFFACD,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:3px,color:#333;
    classDef pillar fill:#E1F5FE,stroke:#01579B,stroke-width:2px,color:#01579B;
    classDef logic fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20;
    classDef review fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#D32F2F,stroke-width:2px,color:#B71C1C;

    class Goal main;
    class P1,P2,P3 pillar;
    class I1,I2,I3,C1,C2 logic;
    class R1,R2,R3,R4 review;

    style SG_Goal fill:#FFFDE7,stroke:#FBC02D
    style SG_Philosophy fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#1976D2
    style SG_Investment fill:#F1F8E9,stroke:#689F38
    style SG_Career fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#7B1FA2
    style SG_Critique fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#EF5350
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
You would be better off if when you got out of school here. You got a punch guard with 20 punches on it And every big financial every financial decision you made you used up a punch You could very rich because you think through very hard each one I mean you went to a cocktail party and somebody talked about a company He didn't even understand what they did or can browse the name But they made some money last week and another one like it you wouldn't buy it if you only had 20 punches on that card There's a temptation to dabble if, particularly during grow markets, in stocks it's so easy. You know, it's easier now than ever because you can do it online. You know, just click at the end and maybe it goes up to point and get excited about that and you're buying another one the next day. And so, you can't make any money over time doing that. But if you had a punch guard with only 20 punches, you weren't going to get another one on the rest of your life, you would think a long time before every investment decision. and you would make good ones, and you'd make big ones. And you probably wouldn't even use all 20 punches in your lifetime, but you wouldn't need to. Best thing, $1 million, $2 million. Very okay. I, I came in from Nebraska today and you're probably all familiar with us, mainly by our football team. We have those fellows with the big white helmets with those red ends on them. I asked one of our sharders the other day, What's the end stand for and he said knowledge? Uh, uh, uh, uh. We, uh, we make a tough lot of dough. I mean, you know, closer to Nebraska, just because you're a football player, they made you an agricultural economics. And there's a two question final, uh, for all of the players. And first question is, uh, what are old MacDonald have? And, uh, they were giving that to one of our potential hysmine, uh, Uh, totally winners the other day and he started this sweat. Finally, right now, he said, farm, professor and delighted, of course, you don't want to flunk a high-skinned candidate. Uh, so he said, now he said, in your halfway home, he said, just one more question. How do you spell farm? Nothing. I really start to sweat. Hey, he looks at the ceiling. He looks around. Five of his face prides on. He says, E-I-O! So watch for that guy. I really want to talk about what's on your mind, so we're going to do a QA in a minute. There are a couple questions I always get asked. I always say, well, who should I go to work for when I get out? I've got a very simple answer. We may elaborate on this as we go along. But the real thing to do is to get going in for some institution or individual that you admire. I mean, it's crazy to take in between jobs just because they look good on your resume or because you get a little higher starting pay. I was up at Harvard while back and very nice young guy picked me up at the airport Harvard Business School attendee and he said, look, he said, I want to undergrad here and then I worked for X and Y and Z and now I've come here and he said, I thought it would really round up my resume perfectly if I want to work now for a big management consulting firm and I said is that what you want to do and he said nobody said that's the perfect resume and I said well when are you gonna start doing what you like and he said well I'll get to that someday and I said you know I said your plan sounds to me a lot like saving up sex for your old age you know it just doesn't make a lot of sense I told that saying girl I said you know go to work for every admire the most and I said you can't get a bad result jump out of bed in the morning and you'll be having fun and Dean called me up a couple weeks later, I said, what'd you tell those kids? He said, they're all becoming self-employed. So you've got to temper that advice a little bit. Play one game a little bit with mate for just a minute and then we'll get to your questions. I'd like for the moment to have you, well, have you pretend I've made you a great offer and I've told you that you could pick any one of your classmates and you now know each each other probably pretty well after being here for a while. You can take, you'd have 24 hours if they get over and you can pick any one of your classmates and you get 10% of their earnings for the rest of their lives. And I ask you, what goes through your mind in determining which one of those you would pick? You can't pick the one with the richest father. That doesn't count. I mean, you've got to do this on merit, but you probably wouldn't pick the person against the highest grades in the class. I mean, not at all we're getting the highest grades in the class, but that isn't going to be the quality that sets apart a big winner from the rest of the pack. Think about who you would pick and why. And I think you'll find when you get through, you'll pick some individual. You've all got the ability. You wouldn't be here otherwise. You've all got the energy. You've got, you know, the initiative is here, the intelligence is here throughout the class. But some of you are going to be bigger winners than others. And it gets down to a bunch of qualities that interestingly enough are self-made. I mean, it's not how tall you are. It's not whether you can kick a football 60 yards. It's not whether you can run the 100 yard dash in 10 seconds. It's not whether you're the best looking person in the room. It's a whole bunch of qualities that really come out of Ben Franklin or the Boy Scout coder, so whatever it may be. I mean, it's integrity, it's honesty, it's generosity, it's been willing to do more than your share. It's just all those qualities that are self-selected. And then if you look on the other side of the ledger because there's always a catch to these free gifts and junior jokes, you also have to, and this is the fun part, you also have to sell short one of your classmates and pay 10% of what they do. So who do you think is gonna do the worst in the class? This is way more fun. And think about it again. And again, it isn't the person with the lowest grades or anything of the sort. It's the person who just doesn't shape up in the character department. I mean, we look for three things when we hire people. We look for intelligence. We look for initiative or energy. And we look for integrity. And if they don't have the latter, the first tool will kill you. Because if you're going to get somebody without integrity, you want them lazy and dumb. I mean, you don't want to spark an energetic. So it's that third quality. But everything about the quality is your choice. You can't change the way you are wired much. But you can change a lot of what you do with that wiring. And it's the habits that you generate now on those qualities or those negative qualities. I mean, the person who always claims credit for things didn't do, that always cuts corners, that you can't count on. In the end, those are habit patterns. And the time to form the right habits is when you're your age. It doesn't do me much good to get golf lessons now. If I got in golf lessons when I was your age, I might be a decent golfer. Someone once said, the chains of habit are too light to be felt until they're too happy to be broken. And I see that all the time. people with habit patterns that are self-destructive when they're 50 or 60, and they really can't change if they're imprisoned by that. But you're not imprisoned by anything. So, when you write down the qualities of that person that you'd like to buy to 10% of, look at that list and ask yourself, is there anything on that list I couldn't do? The answer is, there won't be. And when you look at the person you sell short and you look at those qualities that you don't like, if you see any those in yourself, you can tell them whatever may be selfishness, you can get rid of that. That is not ordained. If you follow that, and Ben Franklin did this, and my old boss Ben Graham did this at early ages in their young teens, Ben Graham looked around and he said, who do I admire? He wanted to be admired himself and he said, why do I admire these other people? And he said, if I admire them for these reasons, maybe other people would admire me if I behave in a similar manner, and he decided what kind of a person he wanted to be. And if you follow that, at the end you'll be the person you want to lie 10% off. I mean, that's the goal in the end, and it's something that's achievable by everybody in this room. So that's the end of the story. Now let's talk about what's on your mind. And... Hey guys, if you're enjoying this warm buffet video, then I have a special treat for you. As a thank you for supporting this channel, I have put together an exclusive investing checklist that summarizes the investment strategy of legendary investor Warren Buffett. You can get it for completely free at the link in the description and pink comment of this video. I've spent hundreds of hours combing through Buffett's interviews and writings to put this checklist together for you guys. If you want to continue learning how to make money in the stock market like Warren Buffett, make sure to get your free copy because it summarizes Buffett's investment strategy in a clear, easy to understand way. Again, thanks for supporting the channel. It means the world to me, and this is my small way of repaying you. Now let's get back to the video. You're going to ask anything. The only thing I won't tell you is what we're buying or selling, or I'm about to say, yeah, I don't even tell myself that. I mean, I write it down, it's like the Coca-Cola formula, you know, there's only two people can get into the trust department and find out what they are, and I don't know who the two are or so. It's, we don't talk about what we're buying or selling, but anything else is fair game, personal business anything I'd like to talk about and actually the tougher the questions are the more interesting it is for me So don't don't spare my feelings I may just throw it my head and and with that let's I guess we've got a microphone. Is this the only microphone or is there one on? Okay To stand in line and and I'll be Regis Golden and you can Yes, I have an old-fashioned belief that I can and only should expect to make money and things that I understand. And when I say understand, I don't mean understand what the product does or anything like that. I mean understand what the economics of the business are likely to look at. Look like 10 years from now or 20 years from now. I know, in general, what the economics of say really chewing gum will look like 10 years from now. The internet isn't going to change the way people chew gum. It isn't going to change which gum they chew. If you own the chewing gum market in a big way, and you've got a double mint and a spear mint and a juicy fruit, those brands will be there 10 years from now. So I can't pinpoint exactly what the numbers are going to look like on Wrigley, but I'm not going to be way off if I try to look forward on something like that. That evaluating that company is within what I call my circle of competence. I understand what they do. I understand the economics of it, I understand the competitive aspects of the business. There can be all kinds of companies that have wonderful futures, but I don't know which ones they are. I've given talks in the past where I carry with me a 70-page, tightly printed list and it shows 2,000 auto companies. Now at the start of the 20th century, you had seen what the auto was going to do to this country, the impact it would have on the lives of your children and grandchildren and so on. It just transformed the American landscape. But of those 2,000 companies, three basically survive. And they haven't done that well at many times. So how do you pick three winners out of 2,000? I mean, it's not so easy to do. It's easy when you look back, but it's not That's so easy looking forward. So you could have been dead right on the fact that the auto industry, in fact, you probably couldn't have predicted how big an impact it would have. But if you brought companies across the board, you wouldn't have made any money because the economic characteristics of that business were not easy. I said, I always said the easier thing to do is figure out who loses. And what you really should have done in 1905 or so when you saw what was going to happen with the auto is you should have gone short horses. There were 20 million horses in 1900 and there's about four million horses now. So it's easy to figure out the losers. The loser is the horse. But the winner was the auto overall, but 2000 companies just about failed a few merged out and so on. There were three companies, auto companies in the Dow industrials. In the 1920s and 30s, Studebaker, Nash, Culbinator, and Hudson Motor. Now those names are all familiar to me, and maybe some of them are familiar to you, but they're not making any cars. They didn't make money. And yet at one time, they were in the Dow 30. They were the aristocrats of American business. And they got cramed. So figuring out the economic characteristics of the winners in a wonderful business is not easy. In North Carolina, you know, Orville and Wilbur took off. or I guess Orville took off and Wilbur watched. I'd have been Wilbur, but if you could have seen the future of the airline business from that point forward in how that would transform things, you know, it would have blown you away. And it's excited people incidentally ever since. But if there had been a capitalist that Kitty Hawk, he should have shot Orville down. I made it because it's done nothing, but cost investors money. There were over 400 airplane companies in the 1920s and 30s alone. There was an Omaha. There was an Nebraska. We were the Silicon Valley, apparently a barricraft, and they all disappeared. Been a terrible business. At the end of 1991, if you added up the aggregate earnings from all airline companies with billions poured in, since Wilbur and Orbal were down there, they came to less than zero. Number of passengers went up every year. The importance of the industry was dramatically increased decade by decade. And nobody made any money. So figuring out the economic consequences. TV, I think there's, I don't know, 20, 25 million cents a year sold in the United States. I don't think there's one of them made in the United States anymore. I mean, you'd say TV set manufacturer, what a wonderful business. Everybody, and now nobody had a TV in 1950, or there are about 45 to 50. Everybody has multiple sets now, but nobody has in the United States and made any real money. Making the sense that they're all out of business. of the Magnavoxes, the RCA's, all of those companies. Radio was the equivalent of the 20, over 500 companies making radios in the 1920s. Again, I don't think there's a U.S. radio manufacturer at the present time, but Coca-Cola, you know, I was at 1884, and Jacob's pharmacy or whatever, and fellow comes up with something, a lot of cop years over the years, but now you've got a company that is selling roughly 1.1 billion eight ounce surveys of its product, not all coaxed bright and some others, daily throughout the world, 117 years later. So understanding the economic characteristics of a business is different than predicting the fact that an industry is going to do wonderfully. So when I look at the internet businesses or I look at tech messes, I say this is a marvelous thing, and I love to play around on the computer, and I order my books from Amazon and all kinds of things, but I don't know who's gonna win. And as I know is going to win, I'm not interested in investing. I'll just play around on the computer. Defining your circle of competence is the most important aspect of investing. It's not how large your circle is. You don't have to be an expert on everything. But knowing where the perimeter of that circle of what you know and what you don't know is and staying inside of it is all important. Tom Watson, senior who started IBM, said in his book He said, I'm no genius, but I'm smart in spots and I stay around those spots and you know, that is the key So if I understand a few things and I stick in that arena, I'll do okay And if I know an understand something but I get all excited about it because my neighbors are talking about the stocks are going up and everything They start fooling around someplace else eventually. I'll get cream and I should so now let's go over here I love Mr. Buffett. I got two short questions. One is how do you find intrinsic value in a company? Well, intrinsic value is what is the number that if you are all knowing about the future and could predict all the cash that a business would give you between now and judgment day, discounted at the proper discount rate. That number is what the intrinsic value of business is. In other words, the only reason for making investment laying out money now is to get more money later on right that's that's what investing is all about now when you look at the stock when you look at a bottom so it makes United States government very easy to offer you're gonna get back it says it right on the bond it says when you get the interest payments so when you get the principal so it's very easy to figure out the value of a bond it can change tomorrow interest rates change but you are you the cash flows are printed on the bond the cash flows aren't printed on the stock certificate That's the job of the analyst is to print out, change that stock certificate which represents an interest in the business and change that into a bot and say, this is what I think it's going to pay out in the future. When we buy, you know, some new machine for Shaw to make carpet, that's what we're thinking about, obviously. And you all learn that in business school. But it's the same thing for a big business. If you buy Coca-Cola today, the company is selling for about $110-$15 billion in the market. The question is, if you had $110-$15 billion, you wouldn't be listening to me, but I'd be listening to you instead of it. But the question is, was you lay it out today to get what the Coca-Cola company is going to deliver to you over the next two or three hundred years? The Scott Wright doesn't make much difference after as you get further out. And that is a question of how much cash they're going to give you. It isn't a question of, you know, isn't a question of how many analysts are going to recommend that, or what the volume of the stock is, or what the chart looks like or anything. It's a question of how much cash it's going to give you. That's the only reason. It's the true if you're buying a farm. It's the true if you're buying an apartment house. Any financial asset for oil in the ground, you're laying out cash now to get more cash back later on. And the question is, is, how much are you going to get, when are you going to get it, and how sure are you? And when I calculate intrinsic value of a business, when we buy businesses, and whether we're buying all of a business or a little piece of a business, I always think we're buying the whole business because that's my approach to it. I look at it and say, what will come out of this business and win? And what you really like, of course, is them to be able to use the money they earn and earn higher returns on it as you go along. I mean, Berkshire has never distributed anything to its shareholders, but it's a ability to distribute goes up as the value of the businesses we own increases. We can compound it internally, but the real question is, Berkshire Sellingford will say 105 or so billion now. What can we distribute from that 100, if you're going to buy the whole company for 105 billion now, can we distribute enough cash to you soon enough to make it sensible at present interest rates to lay out cash now and that's what it gets out of doing. If you can't answer that question, you can't buy the stock. You know, you can gamble in the stock if you want to or your neighbors can buy it. But if you don't answer that question and I can't answer that for internet companies, for example. There are a lot of companies that all kinds of companies that can't answer it for. But I just stay away from those. Number two. So you get formulas involved and finding intrinsic values on certain companies. I mean, you've got a mathematical system that just got a present value of future cash. or cash out. Second short question is, why haven't you written down your set of formulas or your strategies in written form so you can share with everyone else? Well, I think I actually have written about that. If you read the annual reports over the region, in fact, the most recent annual report, I use what I've just been talking about, I use the illustration of ESOP, because here ESOP was in 600 BC. Smart man wasn't smart I don't know if the note was 600 BC, though, I mean, would take a little foresight. But he's out in between tortoises and hairs. All these other things, he found time to write about birds. And he said, a bird in the hand is worth doing the bush. Now, that isn't quite complete. Because the question is, how sure are you there to in the bush? And how long do you have to wait to get him out? Now, he probably knew that, but he just didn't have time because he had all these other powerbers to write and had to get on with it, so. But he was halfway there in 600 BC. That's all there is to invest in. It's how many birds are in the bush? When are you gonna get them out and how sure are you? Now, if interest rates are 15%, roughly you've got to get two birds out of the bush in five years equal to bird in the hand. But if interest rates are 3%, and you can get two birds out in 20 years, It still makes sense to give up the bird in the hand, because it's all gets back to discounting against an interest rate. Problem is, often you don't know, you know, not only how many birds are in the bush, but in the case of the internet companies, there weren't any birds in the bush, but they still take the bird that you give them if they're in the hand. But I actually have written about this sort of thing, and stealing heavily from Esapo, wrote it some 26 hundred years ago, but I've been behind on my reading. Yeah, good morning. I know you're famed for your success, but I was curious, there were any particular moments in your life that are mistakes or failures that you've made that were particularly memorable, what you may have learned from them, and that you have any particular advice for the students here, and dealing with discouraging circumstances. Yeah, well, I've made a lot of mistakes. Biggest mistake, well, not the biggest but necessarily the biggest, but buying Berkshire Hathaway itself was a mistake, because Berkshire was a lousy textile business. And I brought it very cheap. I'd been taught by Ben Graham to buy things on a quantitative basis. Look around for things that are cheap. And that, I was taught that, we'll say, in 1940 and I don't say they made a big impression on me. So I went around looking for what I call you cigar butts of stocks. And the cigar butt approach to buying stocks is that you walked down the street And you're looking around for cigar butts. And you find this, on the street, there's terrible looking soggy, ugly looking cigar. One puff left in it, but you pick it up and you get your one puff disgusting, you throw it away, but it's free. I mean, it's cheap. And then you look around for another soggy, one puff and cigarette. Well, that's what I did for years. It's a mistake, although you can make money doing it, but you can't make it with big money. It's so much easier just to buy wonderful businesses. So now I would rather buy a wonderful business at a fair price than a fair business at a wonderful price. But in those days I was buying cheap stocks and Berkshire was selling below its working capital for sure. He got the plants for nothing. He got the machine here for nothing. He got the inventory and receivables with the discount. It was cheap. So I bought it. And 20 years later I was still running a lot of the business and that money did not compound. You really want to be in a wonderful business because the time is the friend of the wonderful business. It keeps doing more business and you keep making more money time is the enemy of the lousy business I could have sold Berkshire perhaps liquidated it and made a quick little profit, you know one puff But staying with those kind of businesses is is is is a big mistake So you might say I learned something out of that mistake and I would have been way better off taking What I did with Berkshire is I kept buying better businesses I started an insurance business to seize candy, the buffalo and all kinds of things. I would have been way better doing that with a brand new relentty that I'd set up rather than using Berkshire as the platform. Now I've had a lot of fun out of it. I mean, everything in life seems to turn out to the better, so I don't have any complaints about that, but it wasn't dumb thing to do. I went into U.S. air, I bought a preferred stock in 1989. As soon as my check cleared, the company went into the red and never got out. I mean, it was really dumb. I mean, I've got an 800 number I call now, whenever I think about buying an airline stock. I call them up. Any hour, fortunately, I call them at three in the morning and I just dial in. I say, my name's Warren, I'm an aeraholic, and I'm thinking about buying this thing. And they talk me down. I mean, takes hours sometimes, but it's worth it. Believe me, if you ever think about that airline, buying an airline stock, call me and I'll give you the 800 number because you don't want to do it. But we got lucky in terms of how we eventually came out on it. But it was a dumb, dumb decision, all mine. And I've done, biggest, biggest, in terms of, in terms of opportunity cost, eventually cost, I bought half-interest in the Sinclair filling station. I was about 20 with a guy, I was in the natural guard with, and I had about $10,000 then, and I put $2,000 in, and I lost it all. So that was 20%. And that means that the opportunity cost is now $6 billion of that filling station, which is big price to pay for getting to wipe a few windows and a few windshields and things like that. So actually, I like it when Berkshire goes down, because it reduced the cost of that mistake on an opportunity cost. But the biggest mistakes we've made by far, I've made, not we've made, biggest mistakes I've made by far, are mistakes of omission and not commission. I mean, it's the things I knew enough to do. They were within my circle of competence, and I was sucking my thumb. And that is really, those are the ones that hurt. They don't show up anyplace. I probably cost Berkshire at least $5 billion, for example, by sucking my thumb 20 years ago or close to a one Fannie Mae was having some troubles, and we get about the whole company for practically nothing. I don't worry about that if it's Microsoft because I don't know it was Microsoft isn't in my circle of competence. So I don't have any reason to think I am entitled to make money out of Microsoft or on a cocoa beans or whatever, but I did know enough to understand Fannie Mae and I blew it. And that never shows up under conventional accounting. But I know the cost of it. I know I know, you know, I passed it up and those are the big, big mistakes and I've plenty of them. Unless I tell you about them in the annual report and I resist the temptation sometimes. Unless I tell you about them in the annual report, you're not going to know it because it doesn't show up under conventional accounting. But all mission is way bigger than commission. There is big opportunities in life have to be seized. We don't do very many things, but when we get the chance to do something that's right and big, we've got to do it. And even to do it in a small scale is just as big a mistake almost is not doing it at all. I mean you've really got you got to grab them when they come. Because they you're not going to get 500 great opportunities. You would be better off if when you got out of school here you got a punch guard with 20 punches on it and every big financial every financial decision you made you used up a punch. You could very rich because you'd think through very hard each one. I mean you want to talk to a party and somebody talked about a company he didn't even understand what they did or perhaps the name, but they made some money last week and another one like it. You wouldn't buy it if you only had 20 punches on that card. There's a temptation to dabble if particularly during gold markets. In stocks it's so easy. You know, it's easier now than ever because you can do it online. You know, just click it then and maybe it goes up the point and get excited about that and you buy another one the next day and so you can't make any money over time doing that. But if you had a punch card with only 20 punches And we're going to get another one of us to your life, you would think a long time before every investment decision. And you would make good ones and you'd make big ones. And you probably wouldn't even use all 20 punches in your lifetime, but you wouldn't need to. Yep. Mr. Buffett, good morning. In your comments about baking mistakes and errors like that, you talk a little bit about your cell discipline when you're in a position and you feel like it's no longer good. What criteria do you use when you just finally abandon it? Yeah, when I started out the self-situation has changed over the years because when I started out I had way more ideas than money I mean I would go through movies manual I went through it page by page and then I went through it again page by page And I found stocks in there that I could understand that we're selling it like two times earnings even one times earnings Well, when you own 10,000 bucks that I can get a little frustrating And if you don't like to borrow money, which I never like to borrow money So I was always coming up with more ideas than I had money So I had to sell whatever I liked least to buy something new that just was compelling to me And for a long time, I was in that mode and now our problem is we have more money than ideas So we're if you look at our annual report, which is on the internet under in our homepage Berkshire out of Way.com You'll see something in the back called the Economic Principles of Berkshire And you will see which I believe in setting out for my my partners. They are my partners I don't look at my shareholder if I look at my partners I've got to be my partners for life so I want to tell them how I think and if they don't disagree with the way I think that's fine But I don't want them to I don't want to be disappointed in me You know, so I lay out there and I say in terms of our wholly owned businesses We're not going to sell no matter how much anybody offers this form I mean if somebody offers us three times what something is worth sees candy the buffalo news Borshimes whatever maybe we're not gonna sell it. I may be wrong in having that approach I know I'm not wrong if I own a hundred percent of Berger because that's the way I want to live my life I've got all the money that possibly need, you know, it just amounts to a change in the newspaper story on my obituary and the amount of money the foundation has and the break off relationships with people I like and people that have joined me because they think it's a permanent home to do that simply because somebody waves a big check at me would be like selling one of my children because of the wave a big check so I won't do that and I want to tell my partners I won't do it so that they're not disappointed in me. More and more with certain stocks we've got that approach. Now, if we were chronically short of funds and all kinds of opportunities coming, we might have a somewhat different approach, but our inclination is not to sell things unless we get really discouraged, perhaps, with the management, or we think the economic characteristics of the business change in a big way, I mean, and that happens. So, but we're not going to sell simply because it looks too high, and all likely, I mean, that you can't make that a hundred percent, but it's that's the principle under which we're operating. right now, five billion of cash a year at least, so that's a hundred million bucks every week. And, you know, we've been talking here half an hour and I haven't done a damn thing. So, you know, the real question is how do you put it out intelligently and if we were selling things it'd be just that much more, so there may come a time when that would change. But we want to add, I have partners, shareholders, partners who would say if you can get three times what C's candy's worth, why don't you sell it. And that's why I want to be sure before they come in. They know how I think on that. I mean they're entitled to know that. You really want, think for a minute, you know, if you're going to get married, and you want to marry is it's going to last. Not necessarily the happiest marriage, you know, or one that Martha Stewart will talk about or anything, but you want to marry is going to last. What quality do you look for in a spouse? One quality. You look for brains, you look for humor? Do you look for character? Do you look for beauty? No. You look for low expectations. That is the marriage that's gonna last forever. Both have low expectations. I made it and I want my partners to be on the low side on expectations coming in because I want the marriage to last. It's a financial marriage when they join me at Berkshire and I don't want them to think I'm I'm going to do things that I'm not going to do. So that's our guiding principle. Vice is all free in your marital advice, everything out. Next. Good morning. Mr. Buckett, I have a question regarding evaluation of the summons of investment. In recent years, it appears that the use of tax sheltering in preparation is increasing. And such reputable campaigns, like APIs and others, I involved in cold battles over shelters with IRS. And as you know, most of these transactions are fairly artificial, but yet there is a profit there. From the investor perspective, do you think it's beneficial for investor, the company that they invest, I involved in those shelters? And if so, do you think it'd be helpful if those transactions are disclosed in statements meaning the notes to statements. I'm not sure I got that 100% George, could you? I will repeat. If you think that involvement of corporations that you invest or anybody for that matter invest in tax shelter, which is by some definition of the tax shelters, I've never used one. No, I'm not saying so. I'm asking if you know that the corporation involved in such activity that it's beneficial in short term would you think that that's helpful for investors? Well there's I mean there's there's there perfectly legal ways to shelter taxes I mean we we did and still do but we were one of the earliest ones to go in for low-income tax housing credits in fact I met with President first president Bush about about that one and that benefits us to a mild degree, it's not a big element of virtue, I mean it's a penis in terms of purchase overall value, but it is a congressionally ordained tax benefit, I wouldn't call it exactly a shelver, it's a tax benefit that Congress has decided they're willing to offer businesses because they think it's the best way to generate low income housing. So we participate in something, but it's not a big factor in what we do, but there's nothing wrong with it. And then if you get into tax evasion, I mean, that's a whole different game at that point they ought to go to jail. But certain businesses, some insurance companies are reincorporated in Bermuda and you can save a lot of taxes. You have to meet certain other tests which we wouldn't want to meet. But if we were willing to meet those other tests, there's nothing illegal or immoral about us moving to Bermuda, we're not going to do it. But if the restrictions weren't, I mean, the tax code is the rule book. And you follow the rule book. I think some of the things people do in terms of bending that rule book get very close to fraud and sometimes close the line to fraud. And when they do, I think they ought to be prosecuted. But that's another game. And there has been more pushing on that, I would say, in the last five years, and certainly was my experience earlier, and there are more, I think now it's diminished in the last year or two, but a couple of years ago there was some very aggressive marketing by some of the auditing firms, and of these, even with share percentage shares of the gain to be paid to the auditors, I think that those things got fairly dubious, and particularly when And they shoved for legal opinions so that if you got caught doing these things, you can say, well, I was relying on this legal opinion. And therefore, I shouldn't go to jail, but just pay the back taxes. I don't know if anything worse associated with it has done that, but obviously, if they push too far, we don't want to be there. Yep. I was curious with the large number of people you now have with tremendous amounts of wealth, what do you think of the current state of philanthropy? Well, I'll be out this week and actually I'm going to Coca-Cola and me and I'm flying out to Seattle and then talking to the United Wayne group out there, the Seattle United Way raises more per capita, I believe, than any United Way in the country and Bill Gates will be there. We're talking jointly. His mother was very active in the United Way, but Bill was going to give away over a billion dollars a year, a lot more later on, but right now a billion. And it's very interesting. I mean, he's very rational about it and he's very informed. In fact, he got somebody, I think his primary advisor in the medical field as a fellow who was with the CDC in Atlanta. And Bill reads 15 books a month on this. I mean, he can just absorb it. I wouldn't be able to get it that fast. But he just says, with a billion dollars, he wants to save as many lives per year as he can. So that's his object. It's just as much a metric of his foundation some other network return on capital might be for a business and he says I'm going to spend a billion dollars here how many how many lives can be saved for that so he's gotten very heavily into vaccines and and AIDS and African number of things. It's very rational. I personally think all of my 99 point something percent of my net worth will go to a foundation after the latter of my wife and I die. I mean it's all gonna go to foundation. As far as I'm concerned I got it from society, it's gonna go to society. I've written a letter to my trustees, and I've got very few trustees. If you've got a whole bunch of trustees in my view, they just homogenize themselves down to sort of the lowest common denominator because you get 30 people in a room and prestigious people, but they'll have their particular alma mater and they'll have their particular hospital and it'll become a big trade-off game, you know, it'll be a little like Congress. So, I have very few people and I don't give them anything specific because I tell them their judgment above ground will be better than my instructions from six feet underground, so I don't like to think that, but it's true. So I tell them, look, the society are the ones that don't have an actual funding constituency or are just damned and tractable and very difficult to solve. So I tell them I am not going to haunt them at all if they spend big money on some terribly important problem and they fail because they're taking on tough problems. When I buy businesses I'm buying easy businesses. But the reason the big problems of society are big problems is that they're damn tough to solve. So they are they're swinging at bad pitches. I'm swinging at easy pitches in business but they're swinging it they have to swing at bad pitches but I tell them I want them to try and do it and if they fail it doesn't bother me at all. I tell them if they give a million bucks here and a million bucks there and a million bucks there they're not going to sleep because I'm going to be haunting them. I'm going to come back every night. I do not want the eyedropper approach used to philanthropy. But I want them to use their judgment to look at important problems that do not have a natural funding constituency. You know, the government's going to fund it fine. You know, I mean, they should be funding important problems, but we won't need to do it. The role of flight philanthropy in my opinion is to fund things that don't have the natural constituency. And that's what Bill's doing. There aren't a bunch of people around that you can make an emotional appeal to make vaccines available, millions and millions of kids around the world. It just doesn't tug at anybody's hard-strange, you can't name buildings after them. I mean, it just isn't the sort of thing that you can raise money for on an emotional basis. And there's nothing wrong with raising money on an emotional basis. But that is a problem that will get solved by a funny constituent that's responding to that. But Bill is responding to what in his mind is the important thing, which is saving lives, and he doesn't care whether he gets his name on a building, or whether anything happens, or whether anybody knows about it. I mean, he gets publicity just because of the scale he's on, but he doesn't care about that. I can promise you that. So, that's my philosophy, is that I got this money, not because I'm a superior human being, not because I've done more for society than other people. I was wired the right way to be dropped into the United States at this particular time. I mean, it's a huge capitalistic society and I'm wired, no credit to me, but I get born that way, so that I'm better at asset allocation than other people to some degree, just like other people who are better at all kinds of other things. And I was with two teachers out at some valley that are doing more for society than I am, and they don't, this market system does nothing for them. system, those all kinds of things for me. Gates says if I've been born 5,000 years ago, I'd have been some animals lunch, because I can't run very fast. I can't climb trees. And I could tell the animal was chasing me, and oh, wait, can we see how I can allocate assets? But it wouldn't have made any difference. So here I am. I'm born now. Just very, very lucky. And the odds when I was born in 1930, the odds were 50 to 1 against me being more in the United States. That's a terrible set of odds to face. And then I was dropped down here. And if I'd been dropped down in Peru or someplace, or China, I wouldn't have had a chance. So society is what doesn't for you. And it should go by, in my view, it should go back to society. If you've been lucky enough to be dropped into a society where your particular wiring pays off big, that's just luck. And there's nothing wrong with being lucky. I don't feel guilty about anything else. but I also don't feel that I feel I have a lot of fun doing what I do, but I feel the money should go back into society, and it should go back as intelligently as it can. And the best way to do it intelligently is to have high grade and intelligent people administering it at the time. And you don't know the problems that are going to be out there 10 years from now or 20 years from now or 30 years from now, but I do know if I've got a small number of high grade smart people. And high grade is more important. If you gave me 20 extra points of IQ, but cheated a little on the high grade, I wouldn't take it because they got to be. There's so many chances to do things in a petty way or try to, I mean, people get subverted in their own minds to their own interest rather than the interest of the institution. So I really want super high grade people doing it. And I've got them. And I think the money might do a lot of good and they do know good. But it'll be an operating in fields where, if it does some good, that good probably wouldn't have been done otherwise. Yep. I'm just wondering, there's a lot of differences between the recent boom and bust in the stock market and one in the 1920s. But there's also a lot of similarities. And those similarities are allowing people to draw the conclusion that stock prices will be depressed for some time to come. What, where do you disagree and agree with that conclusion? Well, the whole century is quite interesting. If you take the 20th century, it was an unbelievable century for the United States. The GDP per capita, and that's the way to think of it as per capita. Sometimes they talk about our GDP versus Europe, but if their population's the same, every year and ours goes up 1%, you've got to, in the end, you've got to have a divisor as well as a numerator. So GDP per capita in the 20th century in the United States, One up 610%, actually qualitatively it went up far more than that because you can't really measure certain things in medicine or whatever it may be in the improvements. But just on a quantitative basis, it went up every single decade, including the decade of the 30s. So here you had a hundred years when basically the US citizenry was improving their lot decade by decade by decade. The 30s, it was up 13%. decade was World War II. The 40s was up 36 percent. The worst decade was the first World War. Sometimes you can get in trouble on analogies, but in any of that it was a huge period. Interestingly enough, there were six big periods in there for the stock market in both directions. There were three big bull markets. From 1900 to 1921, the Dow went from 66 to 71, less than a 10 percent move in 20 years, less than half a percent a year. You got dividends too, but a half a percent. So it didn't move. From 21 to 29, as you point out, it went from 71 to a high of 381 in September of 1929. What about 500 percent? Well, obviously, the country didn't go 500 percent during that period. Well, being in the company, the country might have a whole lot more than 10 percent during that first 21 years. So he had this very uneven development. from September 1929 until the end of 1948, the Dow went from 381 to about 180, was cut in half, and that was 18 long years. And yet the per capita GDP was moving right up during this whole period until the economy was doing fine. From 48 to 65, the Dow went again from about 180 up to close to 1,000, again 5 for 1, which was far outstripping it. From 65 to 81, the Dow went down, literally, well, again, per capita should be. And then we've had this last period where it's gone up to perfectly. If you take the whole hundred years, it went up 180 for one. Every thousand dollars became 180 thousand. But 43 and three quarters years were those three big huge bull markets, and 56 and a quarter years were periods of stagnation, all in an economy that was doing fine. You know, year after year after year, 56 and a quarter years, net the Dow was down a couple hundred points during that period. And the other 43 and 3-4 years made up the rest of this, moved from 66 to 11,000 someone to Dow. So you excited yourself, how could it be that you could have a country? It was doing better and better and better and better. Citizens were living, every generation was living better than the one that preceded it. But had these huge changes, big gains a few times, long periods of stagnation, 20 years. I mean, that's a long time to do nothing. The answer is that investors behave in very human ways, which is they get very excited during bull markets and they look in the rear view mirror and they say, I made money last year. I'm gonna make more money this year. So this time I'll borrow, you know, or the neighbor says, you know, I wasn't in last year when that neighbor was number than I had made a lot of money. So I'm gonna go in this year. So I always look in the rear view mirror. And when they look in the rear view mirror and they see a lot of money having been made in the last few years. They plow in and they just push and push and push on prices. And when they look in the review mirror and they see no money having been made, they just say this is a lousy place to be. So they don't care what's going on in the underlying business. And it's astounding, but that makes for huge opportunity, just huge opportunity. I mean, I've lived through roughly half in an investing sense about half that period. And I've had that long period of stagnation from 48, I mean, from 65 to 82, 17 years. I wrote an article for Forbes in 1979. I just said, how can this be? Pension funds in the 1970 put 100% of their new money in stock because they were wild about stocked. Then they got a lot cheaper. And they put our record low in, 9% of their net new money in, in 1978, when stocks were way cheaper. People behaved very peculiarly. in terms of the reactions because they're human beings and they get excited when others get excited, they get greedy when others get greedy, they get fearful when others get fearful. And they'll continue to do so. And you will see things you won't believe in your lifetime and securities markets. And the country will do very well over time, but you will see these huge waves. And if you can stay objective throughout that, If you detach yourself temperamentally from the crowd, you get very rich, and you won't have to be very bright. I mean, I'm sure you are, but it doesn't take brains, it takes temperament. It takes the ability to sit there and look at something. When I started out in 1950, I would go through and find things at two times earnings, and there were perfectly decent businesses, and people wanted jobs at those companies, and everybody knew they were going to be around. And they wouldn't buy them at two times earnings, and that's when interest rates were 2.5%. You know, I went to the, I started selling security when I was 21, and Kansas City Life Insurance Company happened to be a fairly prominent company in Omaha, and the policies they sold you, if you were buying life insurance from them, had a building as a assumption of 2% interest. The stock of Kansas City Life was selling at less than three times earnings. You were getting 35% if you bought the stock. question about the sound of the company. I went to the local agent. Hell, I all people sell him a few shares of stock. I mean, the guy I'll understand, he's got his whole life invested in this company. I went to the local agent, who'd been with him for 20 years. And as the name was most, as a Mr. Moose, I said, you know, you're selling these policies with 2%, you may even have a few members of your own family, and you can buy into this company whose paycheck you depend on every month and whose future you, your beneficiaries of these life policies depend on and who you're selling them, you know two percent investment on and you get 35 percent on your money, you know stocks aren't any good. And I couldn't, I couldn't sell the, you know, I was a lousy salesman, I made it well, you have to start with that, but, but it just blew me away, it blew me away. I thought sometimes I used to wonder if I was nuts, you know, but those things the same thing happened, I mean, in 1964 the Dow closed at 864, then in 1981, 17 years later it closed at 865, It moved one point in 17 years. Now, it's not a big move. You can't believe how discouraged people were during that period. People are living better. So things can go on a long time that don't make sense. But they do come to an end. The Internet thing. You had these companies selling for many billions of dollars that had really really, frankly, no prospects of making any money. That's a bubble. But Herb's signed one time, said, anything that can't go on forever will end. Now, that's pretty, but think about that. And particularly think about it next time you're trying to do something just because the stock's gone up a whole lot, you know, and your neighbor's made money or something. You've got to be, you just have to sit and think objectively and think about, will I buy this whole business? So an internet company's got 100 million shares out, selling on a hundred that's ten billion dollars is it worth ten billion dollars if it's worth ten billion dollars It's got to be able to give you you know seven or eight hundred million next year and if it doesn't give you seven or eight hundred million next year it has to give you maybe ten percent more than that the year after and continue to There are a lot of businesses can do that and people just go crazy And of course, it's fun. I mean, it's you know, it's like that sign they put in Booker's offices it says avoid hangover, stay drunk, you know that mean it's it's it's just so much fun to keep playing but you got to do sensible things to get to get good results yeah yeah next well we got three people standing there so let's do the three that are standing there okay good morning sir hi I was wondering what your opinion is of the Federal Reserve and their actions taken recently you feel like done enough to boost the economy yeah well I'm a fan of Alan Greenspan's overtime I've known him for a long, long time we were on a board together at Cat Cities, and Allen is a very, very smart guy. He is motivated, in my opinion, entirely, by what is good for the United States and people in the United States. So you could have a better person in there. And the problem he may have is that because his tenure in office has been associated with this incredible small market that even though he wouldn't have claimed credit for it, that people might associate it because of the importance of the Fed, generally. They might associate it with him so they may, if things don't work out so well, they may blame him as well. But I think his policy has generally been very good. You have to understand one thing about the Fed is that it's not as powerful as the mystique would make it. Its break is better than its gas pedal. And the Fed wants to put on the brakes, we go for the windshield. I mean, you know, the economy is just wrong. Yeah. They can put on the brakes. Paul Voker did it. He broke inflation by doing it. But I mean, when he put on the brakes in that period around 1980, I mean, people hated it. He was crucified for it. But it was the right thing to do. And he could do it. He did it all by himself. And it was the only way because of the momentum that inflation was generating. It was the only thing that was what was needed then, enormously unpopular. It's much harder for a green span to put on the brakes because nobody wants to put on the brakes, plus he's so visible. But he's put him on sort of gradually. But stepping on the gas pedal, he does not necessarily get the same result. It may help, but there are 1,000 other variables operating. And as you see in Japan, you can get down zero interest rates and you can't stimulate anything so it isn't like the Japanese haven't read the same books we read about economics I mean they read Keynes and they read the whole thing so we're not smarter than they are we don't have any secrets they don't have but they don't know how to get their economy going and you know they're JDP there's been going no place you know in the last five years and there's still problems around so easy money doesn't solve everything, but Greenspan could very well get blamed for the fact that he hasn't solved everything, and it's just not in his power to solve it. It can help in various ways, and I don't think he could have anybody better, and I think he's done the right thing to this point, but the right thing may not be quite as effective as people may hope that it would be. In economics, you always want to ask, and then what? to read in the paper, well, what happens if the Japanese start selling our government bonds or what happens if they dump the dollar? They can't dump the dollar. There's no way to dump dollars. You can at least dollar assets because if the Japanese want to sell government our government bonds, they sell them to us, you know, they get a time deposit or demand deposit at city, or they still own a dollar asset. If they sell them to the French, they may get some assets from the French, but now the French have it. I mean, the only way you You can reduce foreign investment in the United States is to change it around so they're consuming more than from us, more than we're consuming from them. I mean, when we buy a television set from Japan, if we buy more television sets from them than they buy equivalent consumables from us, the exchange, what balances things is we give them some investment type asset, whether it's cash or a U.S. government bond or our stocks movie studios or our real estate or different things and the only way that reverses is when we start running a trade surplus which were miles away from so logically you know if you read classic economics that you would believe that our currency would have been weak along or weaker over the recent years and that it would be weak now but there are other things operating and that's one of the problems about economics is there's never just one variable. There's usually hundreds of variables and they operate with different impact at different times. I mean, it's not like a physics formula. I mean, I guess it would be if you got into the Heisenberg principle or something like that, but the formula has a lot of the same variables year after year, but the relative importance of those variables and how they interact with each other is never exactly the same. And that's what But we find out, the Japanese find out everybody finds out, and foreign currency, or the value of our dollar and currency rates, are defying what you would expect based on history. But as somebody said, if history were a perfect guide, the Forbes 400 would all be librarians. I was going to look it up in the books, and they'd always know all the answers. But history doesn't repeat itself as Mark Twain said, history doesn't repeat itself, but rhymes. I mean things come back but they don't quite come back in the same format. We'll understand all this perfectly for years why the dollars behave the way it has but I think it would be useful net for the US if the dollar were less strong. Yes, Mr. Buffett, thanks for taking my question. My question pertains to small business and my family has been in the truckload sector of transportation for about 50 years and as you talked about the airline industry and all the mergers and acquisitions and things going on and a lot of the small or players being tossed out of the market. What do you see for people that like in this room for students that want to start a small business and maybe they want to start in a business that is somewhat of a commodity-type business but as businesses the large corporations get larger in their efficiencies increase how can a small business compete with these people? Yeah, in many areas small businesses have an advantage. You know, another business scale has a huge advantage. And I mean, you don't want to be a tiny carbon steel producer. On the other hand, when many mils came along and learned how to use scrap more effectively than the older methods of making steel, they actually had it manage. So scale is a huge advantage in some businesses. It's, you know, the largest airlines haven't won Southwest airlines is one starting with you know just a few planes flying down there between Houston and Dallas and they had become bigger but their ambition hasn't been to be the biggest and you know they they probably buy their fuel as just as cheap as United and they probably bought it you know when they're about smaller Walmart as a classic example I mean who would have thought 25 years ago 30 years ago I mean here was Sears with a hundred story plus building in Chicago had access to money far cheaper than Sam Walton I mean Sam Walton's credit was not as good as Sears. Every supplier wanted to do business with Sears, nobody had ever heard of Sam. Every real estate developer was developing a new shopping center, went first to Sears, and Sam got the short end. So here's the guy starting at Bentonville, Arkansas, and he kills him over time, just playing kills him. And disadvantage in buying, disadvantage in borrowing, disadvantage in real estate, advantage, Sam won't, and is a pillar of the inspire in the end, hundreds of thousands of people to be enthusiastic about going to work and doing all the right things over time. So I would be just as optimistic about small business generally. Now there's certain areas where scale just is just plain important. But I see no disadvantage. We intentionally at Berkshire, we have 112,000 employees, more in Georgia than any other state in the union incidentally. We employ a lot of near Dalton and we employ a lot of people who make it at Geigo. We intentionally, with our 112,000, but we probably have, I don't know how many business units, but lots. We only have 13.8 people at headquarters. I'm not the point 8 incidentally. I'm a full, but we have one woman that works four days a week. And that's all we have at headquarters, 112,000 people. 105 billion a market cap. But we intentionally keep our units small. We think we want them to have the nimbleness, the responsiveness to the customer, particularly that we'll turn them, you know, that essentially we'll more than offset anything that the scale of having maybe a little more purchasing power, something we'll develop. We own a home furnishing, we have furnishings, home furnishings business in Utah, run by I thought I'd build a child. He was featured in Fortune about one issue ago. The cover story was God in business and it was, Bill was the number one illustration. Bill took that business from his father-in-law when it was doing $250,000 a year. And then I was over half the business in Utah in its field, but close to $400 million. He built it by thinking about the customer and the truth was, he was competing with serious. He was competing with Levitts was a huge furniture retailer in the past. He was competing with everybody. But all he thought about from the moment he got up in the morning was, how do I take care of my customer? And that wins. We have a business in Omaha. Some of you may have heard of, it's the largest home furnishing store in the world in Omaha, which only has a S.M.S.A. of 650,000 people. It's on 72 acres. It does $325 million in one location which happens to be $500 for every man, woman, and child in the S.M.S.A. but it draws from beyond that. That business comes about or has resulted from an investment of $500 in 1937 by a woman who walked out of Russia in 1921. She landed, she walked out, got on a peanut boat, landed in Seattle with a tag around her neck. She couldn't speak He couldn't speak one word of English. The American Red Cross looked at the tag. He said, Fort Dodge, Iowa. They got her to Fort Dodge, Iowa. She couldn't pick up the language. She was there two years. She said she felt like a dummy. So she came to Omaha because there were other Russian Jews there and she'd at least have somebody to talk to. Her little girl started school. Francis, Francis would come home at night and teach her mother the words she learned in school that day. That's how this woman Rose Blumkin learned the English language. But from her daughter from kindergarten, I'm teaching her the words. She brought seven siblings over from Russia, one at a time, 50 bucks every time she saved 50 bucks. She sold news clothing and all those works. She got her seven siblings over her mother and father. And by 1937, 16 years after she got here, she saved $500. She got on a train, went to Chicago, to the American furniture market, which was this huge impressive thing. She had this, she was smart as hell, but she thought like a peasant in a way. And she saw this building and she decided to name her company, the Nebraska furniture market. She went in about $500 worth of, she bought about $2,000 worth of merchandise, all the way back to Omaha she worried because she thought I owe $1,500 and she only had a $500 equity. So she got to Omaha. She took the bed, the sofa, the refrigerator out of her own home to sell fast so she could get the money so she could pay on time. She took that business and build it from that start. No one would sell to her. She went into court four times because they tried to, the carpet manufacturers tried to keep her from selling at a discounted. She went into court and told the judge, because she figured out ways to buy this stuff in various ways from other people to buy it for, and she said, look, I pay $3 a yard for this carpet. Brandeis sells it for $6.98, she says, I sell it for $3.98. Just tell me, Judge, how much you want me to rob people? She defended herself. Papers wrote it up. The judge bought carpet from her the next day. I mean, it was still marvelous. Guys, this isn't selling anymore. They were the huge department store in Alma. She put everybody out of business. And the punchline, she worked till she was 103. She sold me the business when she was 89. And she didn't have an audit. I went out the seer, I went after him. I took a check out with him because I knew she wanted to do something, and I said, Mrs. B, here's the money. I said, I don't need an audit, just tell me whether you owe any money. She said, I never owe any money since I owe those guys. Back in 1937, and she said, it's all free and clear. She'd never seen a balance sheet. She didn't know what accounting terms meant, but she understood the nature of the business. And I told her, I said, I'd rather have your word than an audit from every one of the big six or big eight or whatever their worth number at the time of the top auditing firms in. And she worked until she was 103. She died at 104. She had three siblings at her funeral. I mean, those are some genes. Her son works there now, he's 82 or three. and the three sisters are all alive. But the punch line is she couldn't read her right. This woman could not read her right. If you told her this room was 68 feet by 43, she would tell you how many square yards it was like that. She ever went to school the day in her life. She would tell you how much that was at $598 a yard. She'd add the tax. She'd knock off something because she liked her looks. And that would be it. And that is the, you can't beat that. And you can't replicate that at General Motors. You can't institutionalize that. The person who brings that kind of drive to a business and does it day after day, and thinks about their customer. And that's all she did. Can't end with she braids four kids in the process, too, but it can't miss. And you don't have to worry if you're an entrepreneur in most fields. There's some fields where you can't do it because there are scale aspects to it. But in most fields, you know, you'll kill people. Bob Shaw did that, was Shaw. Nobody ever heard of Shaw in Carpet 30 years ago and he's got 40% of the car to the business in the country. So it's a great field of opportunity out there. And I know about trucking specifically, but I wish you the best on it. Then you won't be in a disadvantage in many fields if you're small and you'll actually have an advantage. You're right. Thank you.
