Timestamp: 2026-05-09T08:22:11.837388
Title: Santi Torres - Las grandes universidades te venden 5 años de formación para consegui... 2052395965076721999
URL: https://x.com/SantiTorAI/status/2052395965076721999?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 1:29:02

Description:
这是对提供的架构与超参数讲座文本的深度解析、批判性审视以及逻辑架构图。

---

### **PART 1. 作者论点图谱 (Author's Map)**

**1. 核心主张 (Core Thesis)**
现代大语言模型（LLM）的架构设计已从早期的随机尝试演变为一种基于实证的“共识工程”：通过在表达能力（Expressiveness）、系统效率（System Efficiency）和训练稳定性（Training Stability）之间进行复杂的权衡，形成了一套以 Pre-norm、RMSNorm、SwiGLU 和 RoPE 为核心的标准范式。

**2. 证据基础 (Evidentiary Base)**
*   **历史文献与模型对比：** 引用了从 Vaswani (2017) 到 Llama 2/3、GPT-3、T5、PaLM、Gemma 等近 20 种主流模型的参数配置。
*   **系统性能数据：** 引用了关于算术强度（Arithmetic Intensity）与内存带宽瓶颈的分析，解释了为何 RMSNorm 和去掉 Bias 能提升运行效率。
*   **实证消融实验：** 引用了 Kaplan (2020) 的缩放定律研究、Narang (2020) 对 T5 架构的对比，展示了超参数（如 FFN 比例）存在一个宽泛的“最优盆地”。
*   **训练曲线观察：** 展示了梯度尖峰（Gradient Spikes）与层归一化位置对收敛影响的对比图。

**3. 逻辑授权 (Logical Warrant)**
作者主要采用**归纳推理（Induction from cases）**。其逻辑路径为：观察到多个由顶尖团队（Meta, Google, OpenAI）训练的成功模型在架构选择上趋同 $\rightarrow$ 这种趋同并非偶然，而是为了解决共同的硬件限制（GPU 内存带宽）和数值不稳定性 $\rightarrow$ 因此，遵循这些“共识”是当前训练有效模型的最优路径。

**4. 声明范围 (Stated Scope)**
*   **持有范围：** 主要针对基于 Transformer 的自回归语言模型。
*   **免责声明：** “我们无法涵盖所有架构的设计空间……这需要极大的算力和时间”；明确指出某些技巧（如并行层）在不同规模下的效果可能存在争议。

**5. 隐含对手 (Implicit Opponent)**
*   **理论教条主义：** 那些认为仅凭理论（如 VC 维）就能设计模型，而忽略硬件实现细节和训练稳定性“脏活”的观点。
*   **原始 Transformer 忠实者：** 坚持 Vaswani 原版设计（Post-norm, ReLU）而不愿吸收最新工程改进的人。

**6. 预期收效 (Intended Takeaway)**
读者应当放弃寻找“完美数学架构”的幻想，转而学习如何通过模仿成熟模型（如 Llama）的配置来避坑，并理解每一个微小改动（如 QK-norm）背后的系统性权衡。

---

### **PART 2. 刻薄但极其公平的审阅 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair REVIEW)**

**1. 强力辩护 (Steelman)**
作者准确地指出，现代 LLM 的架构创新本质上是**“硬件感知型设计”**。在万亿参数规模下，数学上的微小优势往往会被训练不稳定性或推理延迟所抵消。因此，作者提出的“共识架构”实际上是目前人类在现有硅基芯片（GPU）限制下找到的局部最优解，具有极强的实操指导意义。

**2. 最弱环节 (Weakest Link)**
论证高度依赖于**“幸存者偏差”**。
> “Llama 2 表现很好，所以我想要我自己的 Llama 2……于是大家都开始训练类似 Llama 2 的模型。”

这种逻辑暗示了目前的架构收敛可能是因为**“大家都在抄作业”**，而非这些架构在数学上具有不可替代的优越性。如果存在一种更优但难以训练的架构，在这种“学他人经验”的指引下，它将永远不会被发现。

**3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)**
*   **选择性忽略：** 作者提到 T5 使用了 64 倍的 FFN 扩展比，随后又说 T5 v1.1 改回了 2.5 倍，以此证明标准比例的正确。但这忽略了 T5 v1.1 同时也改变了激活函数（从 ReLU 到 GLU）。这种多变量的同时改变使得将成功归功于单一超参数回归“标准”的做法显得武断。
*   **缺乏负面案例：** 讲座中几乎没有详细分析那些遵循了“共识”但依然训练失败的模型，这使得架构看起来比实际更易掌控。

**4. 隐藏前提 (Hidden Premises)**
*   **假设硬件环境恒定：** 所有的系统优化（如 RMSNorm）都是基于 HBM 带宽瓶颈。如果未来的计算平台（如存内计算或不同架构的 AI 芯片）消除了这一瓶颈，作者推崇的很多“架构改进”将失去意义。
*   **假设损失函数即一切：** 所有的架构对比都基于 Perplexity 或训练损失，忽略了架构对模型下游任务（如长文本推理、逻辑一致性）的隐性影响。

**5. 盲区 (The Blind Side)**
作者完全忽略了**“架构近亲繁殖”**的风险。当所有模型都使用相同的 RoPE、相同的 SwiGLU、相同的 GQA 时，整个领域可能陷入了局部最优。讲座中提到的“稳定性技巧”（如 QK-norm）本质上是给一个病态系统打补丁，而非从根本上解决 Transformer 随深度增加而产生的数值衰减问题。

**6. 致命一击 (One Hit Kill)**
如果正如你所说，超参数存在一个极其宽泛且平坦的“盆地”（如 1 到 10 倍的 FFN 比例都差不多），那么为什么工业界还要耗费数百万美元进行极其昂贵的超参数微调？这是否说明我们目前的评估指标（Loss）根本无法捕捉到架构微调带来的关键质量差异？

**7. 如何定论 (What Would Settle It)**
需要一项跨硬件平台的、包含下游复杂任务评估的架构基准测试。如果某架构在 A100 上表现优异但在新型处理器上表现平庸，或者 Loss 相同但推理能力迥异，就能证明目前的“共识架构”只是针对特定硬件和特定评估指标的“过拟合”产物。

---

### **PART 3. 逻辑架构示意图 (Mermaid Diagram)**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    subgraph SG_Core["🎯 核心主题: 现代 Transformer 架构演进"]
        A["<b>架构设计即权衡</b><br/>表达力 vs 稳定性 vs 系统效率"]
        style A fill:#FFD700,stroke:#DAA520,stroke-width:3px,color:#333,font-weight:bold
    end

    subgraph SG_Evolution["🏗️ 架构共识的形成 (从 Vaswani 到 Llama)"]
        direction TB
        B1["<b>1. 归一化重构 (Norms)</b>"]
        B1 --> B1a["位置: Pre-norm (保持残差流干净)"]
        B1 --> B1b["类型: RMSNorm (去掉均值/偏置, 提升算术强度)"]
        
        B2["<b>2. 激活函数进化 (Activations)</b>"]
        B2 --> B2a["从 ReLU/GELU 转向 Gated Linear Units (GLU)"]
        B2 --> B2b["代表: SwiGLU / GeGLU (更强表达力, 参数补偿)"]

        B3["<b>3. 位置编码 (Positional)</b>"]
        B3 --> B3a["RoPE (旋转位置编码): 相对位置、旋转不变性"]
        B3 --> B3b["趋势: 解决长文本依赖的关键"]
        
        style B1 fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#1565C0,stroke-width:2px,color:#1A237E
        style B2 fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20
        style B3 fill:#FFF3E0,stroke:#E65100,stroke-width:2px,color:#4E342E
    end

    subgraph SG_Stability["🛡️ 稳定性补丁 (防止训练炸机)"]
        C1["<b>Z-Loss</b>: 约束 Logit 范围, 稳定 Softmax"]
        C2["<b>QK-Norm</b>: 在注意力前加 Norm, 防止数值爆炸"]
        C3["<b>Logit Soft-capping</b>: 强制截断 (Gemma 特色)"]
        style C1 fill:#FFCDD2,stroke:#C62828,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#333
        style C2 fill:#FFCDD2,stroke:#C62828,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#333
        style C3 fill:#FFCDD2,stroke:#C62828,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#333
    end

    subgraph SG_Hyper["📊 超参数盆地 (实证准则)"]
        D1["FFN Ratio ≈ 4 (或 GLU 修正后的 2.67)"]
        D2["Aspect Ratio ≈ 100 (宽度/深度比)"]
        D3["Head Dim: 保持 D_model/H 的平衡"]
        style D1 fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#7B1FA2,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#333
        style D2 fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#7B1FA2,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#333
        style D3 fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#7B1FA2,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#333
    end

    subgraph SG_Review["⚔️ 批判性审视 (Hostile Review)"]
        direction TB
        R1["<b>幸存者偏差</b>: 现在的'共识'可能只是因为大家都在模仿 Llama"]
        R2["<b>硬件依赖</b>: 优化逻辑被 HBM 带宽深度绑定"]
        R3["<b>盆地假说质疑</b>: Loss 盆地平坦不代表下游能力一致"]
        R4["<b>补丁式设计</b>: QK-Norm 等手段是掩盖架构本质缺陷的'止疼药'"]
        style R1 fill:#FFF9C4,stroke:#FBC02D,stroke-width:2px,color:#333
        style R2 fill:#FFF9C4,stroke:#FBC02D,stroke-width:2px,color:#333
        style R3 fill:#FFF9C4,stroke:#FBC02D,stroke-width:2px,color:#333
        style R4 fill:#FFF9C4,stroke:#FBC02D,stroke-width:2px,color:#333
    end

    A --> SG_Evolution
    SG_Evolution --> SG_Stability
    SG_Evolution --> SG_Hyper
    SG_Stability & SG_Hyper -.-> SG_Review

    %% Subgraph Styles
    style SG_Evolution fill:#F8F9FA,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Stability fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#D32F2F,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Hyper fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#7B1FA2,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Review fill:#FFFDE7,stroke:#FBC02D,stroke-width:2.5px
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
So today, we're going to talk about architecture, which, at least to me, has always been pretty inscrutable. And so I'm going to take the approach of just telling you kind of everything, right? I'm going to go through all of the modern papers, and we're going to just look through what has everyone done. And so I've titled this, everything you didn't want to know about architectures and hyper parameters. Because I think we all wished we lived in a world where the only things you had to know were like VC dimension or something, right, like very simple, you know, theoretical tools. But that's not really where we are. So what we are going to do is we are going to try to understand architecture from kind of like a survey lens, right? The best thing to do, you know, better than listening to a little lecture even, is for you to go out and like train your own models and try different architectures, right? By far the best thing to do, that's part of the philosophy of the course. But we're not going to be able to cover the whole design space of all the different architectures that are out there, right? Like that's not something that we have the compute or the time to do. So my opinion is the second best thing that we could do is to try to learn from the experience of others. What has everyone else done? What are the choices that they are making? And by looking at a broader, somewhat zoomed out picture, maybe we can start to understand, oh, these are the kinds of parameters and choices that are sort of fixed across all effective architectures. And these other ones can be varied without impacting how the model perform. So I'm going to talk about basically transformer variance. What is the modern transformers starting with the Vaswani paper? And then as we go to more modern, more recent architectures, what do they have in common? And then what are we allowed to vary, or not allowed, but what do people vary as they go through this, right? So I think many of you have taken an LP course of some kind or at least seen a transformer. So you've probably seen the very vanilla transformer from Vaswani at all. There, there are some fairly standard choices that you make. You say, oh, transformers don't have positional dependence, so we're going to add a position embedding. And what do we do? We're going to add some signs and cosines. We're going to have information processing through a rel U. And then we're going to have a post norm. I'll talk about what exactly that is later. And when you look at your assignment, your A1, you're going to notice some differences between the standard or the vanilla transformer and what we've asked you to implement. Well, we're going to ask you to move the layer norm to the front of each transformer block or the non-resigial layers. We're going to ask you to implement something called rope. And we're going to ask you to implement something called swigloo and not-releu. Why do we pick these? One reason is we've copied a lot of this over from Lama, but so did I run else. Really, I think if you were to train on your own language model, I think you'll quickly run into this question of, oh, there's so many choices, right? What do I choose for all these things? And so let's now sort of walk through all these different models. The way I kind of think about architectures is to think about, to look at all the different things people have done and say, what are the things that people have done? Can we pick and choose from those? Percy always makes fun of me for this a little bit, but I try to look at all the different models that come out each year to try to make this lecture. And last year I thought, oh, there's just a couple of papers. It's going to be fine. It's going to be fine. And then I look through all the things, and there's a lot of papers. There's Quentin 2 and Gemma 3 and Internal M2. And then there were even more. There's like Neemotron 4 and Quentin 2. And oh my goodness, there were 19 new dense models. And so last year, I had my work cut out for me. And this year, I thought, well, there can't be that many new LM releases. It's got to be slowing down. People can't keep training 20 dense LMs per year. And that's technically right, darn, as many dense LMs. Initially, I was like, oh, there's Quentin 3. Gemma 4 just came out last Thursday, so I put that in there. in all most three, you know, there's only a couple. And of course, I have to give a shout out to Percy's own 8B model, trained with Marin. And I was like, oh, we'll just have a few things to cover. But it turns out if you start looking at a lot of different models. And so the fact that we have so many different models, most of these actually are MOEs, mixtures of experts. And I'll be talking about that tomorrow rather than today. Because we have such a big diversity of models, we actually get a pretty good picture of all of the different choices that we can make. So I made this little table. We'll come back to this little table at the end of the lecture. But basically, at this point, starting with the original transformer, there's been actually quite a few auto-regressive language models kind of trained on the same class of things. And you can ask questions like, what are the different vocabulary sizes? Or what kind of layer norms do we use? Or what kind of position embeddings do people use? And we see some fairly clear trends. I'll be talking about this as we go. OK. So the goal here is that we're going to cover a couple of different things. We're going to cover common architecture variations. So these are different building blocks of the transformer. And after we've established what the standard building blocks are, what do we use for the non-linearities or what do we use for position embeddings, then we're going to talk about hyper parameters. We're going to go down even lower detail and say, what is FF dim? Should we make that a multiple of four? We're like multiply the hidden by 4 to get FF dim. How many vocab elements should I have? And then after that, we're going to talk about very low level tricks of how to get models to train stably. And the reason why I'm going to talk about that in this lecture is because these stability tricks have a pretty close connection with the architecture variation. One of the things that higher level I want as sort of impress upon you is the architectures are actually a very complex set of trade-offs. Like, what does architecture have to do? Well, it has to learn from data, so it has to generalize. It has to train efficiently on GPUs. And it has to not blow up, right? Like halfway through training, if you're, you know, training losses just go like down like this and then suddenly blow up, that's no good at all, right? So all these different requirements end up getting baked straight into the architecture. And that's why these things are a little bit messy and a little bit complex. But you should keep that in mind and that's why things are in many ways not so elegant. OK, so we're going to start with the core architecture piece. And as a high level of view, I think the way that I see a lot of the architecture stuff, looking basically historically, is kind of in the early days of starting with a transformer until GPT-3 or so. There's a lot of experimentation that happens. People try lots of different things. There's no gold standard that everyone has unified on. And then Lama 2 comes out, and everyone's like, wow, Lama 2 is great. I want my own LAMATU. And so everyone starts training LAMATU alike with minor variation that people have. And then finally, last year, we saw really big differences or sort of trend towards architecture modifications that make training more stable. And this year, we see lots of trends towards architecture variations that enable longer context dependence. So there are these big themes that are happening. But really, I think you see this like big point when Mama 2 comes out and everyone's like, wow, I want to train some with that. And then suddenly, or not suddenly, but after that, people are starting to explore once again. So it's kind of cool to see all these different changes. OK. I think people can disagree about a lot of things on architectures, but there is one thing that everyone agrees on. If you take the transformer paper, I think a lot of people will say the transformer people got most of the things right, except this. And the thing that they really did not get right or like, I think most people agree they did not get right, is where you put the layer norm, right? So in the original transformer paper, the layer norm goes in what you would call the residual path. So in the transformer, you have the residual stream, this x, that kind of runs through the whole network. And then you are going to be applying attention, which does some computation. And it will add back sort of a delta back into the residual stream. And then, in order to make sure that these gradients are sort of stable across layers, a layer norm is placed at the end of each of these components. Now, instead of putting the layer norms in the residual stream, there's an alternative. I'll refer to this as pre-norm, in which you can put the layer norm outside of the residual stream, but before each of the computation. So you can put it before the multi-head attention. You can put it before the FFN. We'll call this pre-norm. The nomenclature will get a little bit confusing. You can call this post-norm for now, but let's call this sort of residual norm, right? Because you're putting the norm in the residual layer. Basically, all modern language models push the layer norm outside of the residual stream. This is just like a thing that basically everybody does. There is one funny exception, but it is OPT 350M. And if you all are familiar with sort of language models, we kind of know OPT in general was kind of a mess of a language model, right? And OPT 350M is even more so because I don't know why only that model has a post-layer norm in the residual street. OK, so this is one of the things that everyone agrees on. And so you might wonder, why is this such a unified thing across all the different models. And if you look at some of the early works, studying where do you place the layer norm style research, what you really see is that the early motivation for a lot of this was when you train a transformer, you need to do a warmup. Actually, modern transformer training still does warmup as well. But you definitely need to do warmup when you train. Now, wouldn't it be nice if we could remove the warmup? So that was kind of the initial motivation for a lot of this research. But people quickly realized that removing the warmup had very serious issues in terms of the stability and convergence of these things, right? So if you did post-norm plus layer norm, which is basically the original transformer thing, you got this purple dash line. Oh, you just don't converge as well. Compared to doing something like pre-norm, you can ignore the other terms. You would get much nicer convergence even without warmup, right? So this was the original motivation. But really what people kind of quickly realized is that moving the layer norms outside the residual stream has some pretty important implications as you make your network deeper. And as you start to grapple with stability issues. To me, I think the gradient attenuation issues are kind of the most clear. When you sort of talk to people who do architecture design, I'm not really one of the people that deeply engages in this. But one of the things that people often say is keep your residual stream clean. So in this case, you have your x is coming in from the bottom on the pre-norm side, and this x propagates all the way up to the top, all the way up to your final output. And that allows gradients to propagate, if in the backward pass, straight through this. That makes gradient propagation very simple, which improves both stability and signal propagation. And that's what people realized very, very quickly. That if you do something like pre-norm in blue, initialization, the gradient size is kind of remains the same, because you have this nice straight-through propagation in the backward pass. On the other hand, if you have post-layer norm, you have these complicated effects that happen, because you're layer-norming each time you're going through a transformer block. And that's going to change the norm of your gradients as you go backwards through. So you can kind of see, you know, from the principle of keep your residual stream clean, that pre-norm makes a lot of sense. People also realized through experimentation that this also improves stability in general, that the sizes and frequencies of gradient spikes were improved under pre-norm compared to post-norm. And you know, this is a figure from Salazar and UN, who are one of the first ones, I think, to study this phenomenon carefully. And I think this is the reason why it's stuck around, right? Stability and the ability to go deep are both very, very important for modern large language models. And so this idea of moving your layer norm outside of the residual stream is one that basically everyone has adopted. So now, if putting layer norms in residual streams is bad, why does layer norm have to be at the start? Of course, we have pre-norm, which is before our computation, But we could have it after a computation as well. That's equally good, at least under that logic. And that's exactly right. Many recent models, like Grock or Gemma II or Olmot II, have this structure where they move the layer norm after the computation. So it's a post-norm of a kind, but it's outside the residual stream. Other models still actually just put layer norms everywhere. They put a layer norm here. They put a layer norm after. I'll get to this later as we talk about stability. But one of the other lessons that it seems to have held up very well is if you have stability issues, you can kind of sprinkle in layer norms everywhere, and that will generally improve stability. It's almost very strange to be saying this because it's so ridiculous. And yet, that statement has actually been proven right. Every time people have encountered stability issues, they say, oh, but what if we just throw a layer norm into attention? Turns out that works too. We'll get to that later. So OK, that's post-norm or double norm in this case, where you have two layer norms here. OK, the other thing that you can do is in the original transformer, you have the layer norm, which is this operation right here. So you have your activations x. You're going to mean subtract, divide the variance, and then scale it back up. And this works just fine. It's not like this is wrong. And many models have successfully trained on this scheme. But basically, most or all modern models, I think, use RMS norm, which doesn't subtract the mean or add a a bias term, right? So it's just a scaling down and scaling back up, right? So you can see this in the equation here. And really, layer norm is more expressive than RMS norm. So there's really representationally no reason why you have to use RMS norm. But RMS norm is nice because in practice, there's really no expressiveness loss. RMS norm models just as well as layer norm. But more importantly, it is faster, right? This is the part where the systems and architecture co-design starts to come in. Percy mentioned in the previous lecture this idea of arithmetic intensity. We want to keep our GPUs hot by doing matrix multiplies and other very intense computations. We do not want to be wasting our GPUs by having them move little tiny bits of memory back and forth. That's a very inefficient use of our very powerful GPU. And so what we want is to remove operations that are small and involved memory movement, but don't give us much expressive power. So by that view, what we really want to be doing here is if the mean subtraction and addition isn't really doing much for us, just get rid of it. You might think, OK, why does this matter? We're just optimizing this teeny tiny operation that accounts for, in this case, something like 0.17% of the total floating point operations of our system. But as Percy mentioned, it's not really about the flops. The flops are the floating point operations we do, that's sort of multiplying matrices. But that's not runtime. Runtime is a much more complicated object. And statistical normalizations, things like layer norms, even though they're only 0.17% of the flops, depending on your workload and depending on the setup can be up to 25% of the runtime. That's kind of crazy. On tiny models, this can be really, really big. Because you're still having to move all these parameters back and forth from fast to slow memory and vice versa when you're doing these operations. So data movement is really, really important. And RMS norm can still matter a lot because of this. So you can see kind of the difference here. The arithmetic intensity is in white. And then you can kind of see the flops involved in black. And you see that layer norm has a very low arithmetic intensity, which is the operation we try to want to remove as much as possible. Yeah, question over there. If you have movement for normalization, so just proportionate compared to like basic extraction of the product. So for a test, something like tester contraption, which is in this case, matrix multiplies, the majority of the workload is multiplying. Whereas for stat normalization, the majority of the workload is memory movement. And memory movement is quite slow. So imagine the case where like moving something is like almost all of the compute, then you're still paying quite a bit here, right? because activations can be quite large. Yeah, I think the percent runtime in this case is quite extreme. This is like in the tiny models with matrices that don't really generally make sense in modern workloads. But this is giving you a sense of why this is a free optimization. And you do see this, right? This is another paper in which people are evaluating different architecture intervention. They're on get all in 2020. I think this was a Google paper. And they show for teeny tiny transform of about 200 million parameters, you got more steps per second. That's a third column over here. when you switch to RMS norm, and in fact, you actually get better performance, which I don't think is something that you're guaranteed, but it's a nice bonus regardless, right? So you've got a free systems win by just moving to RMS norm, and so basically everyone has decided to move over to this now. And in general, there's a more general version of this. There's no guarantee to any of the things I'm saying, but biased terms in transformers and neural networks are generally not that useful. So in the original transformer, the linear terms all have biases. But most implementations actually just drop the biases entirely. Once again, this is another example of something that's not very aerodynamically intense, but fairly memory intensive, relatively speaking. And so you might as well just drop these, and get the free systems went. There's also some cases, I'll just mention this off-hand, where the bias terms can also induce stability issues. So they're useful in other ways. But really, I think the primary reason these are dropped is just to simplify things from the systems perspective. OK, so I think layer norms, the story is pretty easy. It's easy in the sense that what people do is fairly standardized, our understanding, not at a deep theoretical level, but our understanding of what layer norm does is fairly good. Everyone moves the layer norm outside the residual stream, often pre-norm, but I think this might partially be because lambda 2 did that. And we roughly have a sense of how to use layer norm to control things like gradient spikes and keep signal propagation nice. Related to that, we also now, you know, basically always use RMS norm. And you hopefully understand the general principles here of basically just dropping bias terms. And that allows us to keep our system more arithmeticly intense while keeping the expressive power the same. I think the unsatisfying thing about a lot of architectures is that you can't really reason about this beforehand. Like, we don't know beforehand that dropping the bias terms is OK. But from a lot of experimentation and now collectively acquired knowledge, we roughly know that dropping the bias terms on both the linear and RMS norm is OK for typical language modeling workloads. This is the kind of statement that we can make on the basis of what we do when we look at a variety of different models. OK, any questions for layered on stuff? OK, so now I'm going to talk about activations. And there's a whole zoo of activations. There's just a lot, right? Like a relu, gellu, swish, l-u, gaglue, cellu, swiglue, liglue. And what are these things? I think at one point of my more stats ML training, I thought to myself, I will never learn these things. I will make it a point of pride to never know what a swiglue is. But now it's actually very important for us to actually have a general sense of what these objects are in which parts of these names actually kind of matter for performance. So you can build and train a language model on just a fairly vanilla activation. Even, I guess, Chinchilla is probably the best model out of that group, but even if you just want to rel you, you can train a reasonably performant language model using just that activation. There's nothing wrong with that. And if we move to Gellu, which is a Gaussian error unit, And really, the only difference is this tiny divot at the bottom here, which really, for the most of the activation, doesn't change anything but changes the gradients right near zero. Then you can train models like GPT-3. That's a perfectly good, large language model, not modern by modern standards, but perfectly fine. But then we get to the gated linear units, like Swigloo and Gagglue. And these are really where most of the action is. This is very similar to LayerNorm in that I think almost all credible modern language models use a gated linear unit of some kind. OK, so what is a gated linear unit? So these are gated activations. So if we want to look at something like a feed-forward layer, we can just look at this first part. This is a very standard relu feed-forward. I have my x, I hit it with a w1, I entry-wise threshold at 0, and then I hit it with another w2. I get my op, very straightforward relu network. Another thing, I don't say this as my personal experience, but another thing that is often said in architecture design is that gaiding is often very helpful. So if you apply that very general heuristic, what you might get is to say, okay, well, instead of just having this entry-wise value, why don't we also have a gate? And the second gate, the second term here, this is just going to multiply the output of my value, entry-wise, and I have a second matrix V, okay? I'm just going to modulate the output of my ReLU. And then I'm going to do everything else the same. So instead of just having xw1w2, I have xw1, and I'm going to gate that with xv. This is another activation the same size as this. And then I'm going to down-project it back with w2. OK, so what is this? Now, this is a regulu. This is a, you make these names by adding the first activation in this case, ReLU and GLU, right? the rel u gated linear u. Engating has been a very effective other primitive in architecture design. And it turns out that this is very effective in language modeling as well. So if you take something like a gallu, we've already talked about that, right? That's like the rel u, but with a little divot at the bottom here, you will get a gallu. And if you take a swigloo, which is x times a sigmoid, then you will get a swigloo. So this is a swish times the rest of it. And this really covers a lot of the modern models, right? Generally, the Google folks have used get glue. So like the gamma models, the T5 models are those. And everything that's kind of like a llama descendant uses a swigloo. So palm and the llama descendants are all kind of swigloo models. I would say that swigloo is probably the more dominant one. But honestly, amongst the gated units, doesn't really matter. Now, here's a side note that will be a semi-important piece of trivia later. If you look up here, you will notice that there are more parameters for the gated model, because I don't have this parameter of v. And so if you do a little bit of math, I now have three matrices instead of two matrices. What you should do is you should maybe use a smaller feed-forward dimension by a factor of 2 thirds in order to keep the total parameter count the same. So this is roughly the idea of, well, I want to keep the same number of total parameters as my original MLP, but I now want to make it gated. So I'm going to make the feed-forward dimension, which is the output dimension of this w, a little bit smaller by 2 thirds. So this is a general rule of thumb that people have followed, but it's not really an iron rule. The original norm schizier paper that proposed this, had some very small deltas originally, but they're consistent deltas. And I think to his credit, I think a lot of his papers have these like error bar assessments of like training multiple replicates and checking to see if they're better. And if you look, the GLU variants are almost always consistently better than the non-GLU variants. And this is a parameter matched comparison because Nome Shazier is always doing this two-thirds adjustment to make sure that all of the models have the total, same total number of parameters. So this is quite nice. It's in some ways a free win. Almost everyone uses a GLU. There have been other sort of more controlled systematic comparisons. This is the same paper I was talking about before. Narang at all in 2020. Google, actually in the 2020s, did quite a few nice large-scale architecture comparison papers, although with a T5 architecture and not auto-aggressive language model. And they basically comprehensively compare things like GLU's. And you see once again, if we look at the Swigloo or the Geglue or the GLU's in general, they do significantly better out-loss or the other downstream metrics, right? Fairly compelling on these papers also clear from now a lot of model training runs that Sligloo and GLU are good, right? So there's a lot of variations in gating, but really the important single axis to know is that gating for these non-linearities is actually quite important, gives you nice boost without much of a computational cost. That's not to say that gated linear unit are necessary. I mean, GPT-3 was that, I think the Nimutron 340B model is the squared relu, which is a kind of a crazy choice, but that works too. Both of these models are perfectly performant, but it's actually quite rare to see anything that's not trained on a gated linear unit. So evidence is pointing towards consistent gains on using these gating tricks. OK, so those are, I think, the more consensus choices for things that we can do in architecture. Now, this one, I think, is a really fun idea, but one that I think now the test of time has shown maybe is not quite as good or maybe not as popular of an idea. Normally, we do our transformer blocks seriously. We compute our attention, then we compute the MLP, one after the other. If you're very systems-minded, you might say, well, this introduces a bottleneck. I have to wait for the computation of one to do the other. If they were instead in parallel, I could bring to bear some new and cool systems optimizations, potentially. So you might ask, could we parallelize the transformer block? And this was originally an idea that was in GPTJ, which is an open source attempted replication of GPT3. And very interestingly, I think GPTJ has been surprisingly influential in sort of propagating a lot of ideas. I mean, Palm as well, Google is actually surprisingly bold with the architectures that they do. But the description in Palm, which you can see in their report, is kind of the following. Instead of nesting this, which is the sequential form at the top, you're just going to add together the output of the MLP and the attention layer and just add both of those back into the residual stream. If you implement this right, you can actually share a lot of the components. Like you can share the layer norms. You can fuse the matrix multiplies. This allows you to potentially get additional systems optimizations. And I think a lot of the people that have been influenced by Google, so Cohera was founded from one of the former transformer authors, they do a lot of Google-inspired optimizations. They followed this architecture, but not very many others. This has been an approach that has really fallen out of popularity over the past, I think, two years. I think mainly because optimization of the serial form has gotten sufficiently good that the systems gains from the second one just isn't worth the small hits to representation power that you end up getting going from parallel to serial. Effectively, you can think about it as you've lost half of your depth. And that can be a deleterious thing to do to your model. OK, so in terms of the architecture things, actually, the fact that this is so short should suggest to you how much the original transformer formulation has somewhat stood the test of time. Because the only thing I'm really talking about changing here is where the norms go, or whether we have bias terms, or whether we gate the MLPs. But those are actually pretty minor changes compared to all the things that you can do. Now, those of you that are carefully paying attention might say, but wait, there's a lot of transformer alternatives that change the attention. Yes, you'll have to wait until next lecture, because today I'm just only going to cover core attention based methods. And next lecture, I'll throw in a little bit of a state space model stuff. But as long as you're in this dense attention actually the architecture from the original transformer paper is pretty close to what we do. So you see quite a bit of this, right? So just now going back to this, blue here is our mess norm. Black is layer norm. You see most of the modern models are sort of our mess norm models, serial versus parallel layers. The blue ones parallel, the rest is serial. You see mostly serial layers, pre-norm versus post-norm. Some of these ones that I marked as post-norm are actually pre-and post-norm. And then these ones on the right, these are GLUs almost always with the exception of things like Falcon which use a gated linear unit but almost all of these are really gated linear units from modern models. So you can see the trends quite visually from what I'm telling you. Okay, so really the thing that is very different across implementations, and I think a place where a lot of the architecture stuff is still in flux is how you do position dependence and incorporate information from other positions, right? So the core attention component in some sense. So there are lots of different ways that you can encode position into a transformer. Just to remind you, right, this is very, very important because attention is positionally independent, right? they're just inner products, so you can just shuffle them and attention would be the same if you don't have a position embedding. The original transformer had sine and cosine embeddings, kind of like a Fourier transform intuition that if you have signs and cosines, then you can kind of recover a position from that no matter what. A number of other sort of large models that follow soon after that used absolute embeddings, where each position had its own different embedding. And then several other sort of Google models like to use relative embedding. So here, you're not adding embeddings into the embedding, like word vector embeddings, but instead, you're adding a vector to the attention computation itself. So if you're three positions off, sort of the attention matrix gets a different offset added to it. And models like key five and chinchilla use kind of this scheme. The thing that has really become pretty dominant in terms of position embedding is this class of embeddings called Rope, which some of you may be familiar with. Most models passed 2024 use this type of embedding. And it's kind of remarkable, given that Rope in some ways came out of nowhere. Originally, I think this was also a GPTJ innovation from, I think, a sort of not very well-known blog post and paper combination from an author in China. But really, it has some really interesting ideas for why you would do something like Rope. So rope is a relative position embedding. And a relative position embedding, let's make an opinionated stance, that I should not care about the absolute position of any words. So if an apple appeared together, even if it appears at the start or at the end, in rope embeddings, they should get the same result. And we do know that and we want to represent it in this way. So I have an embedding f, and I have another embedding f, and these are going to take in the identity of the words x and y and the positions absolute of i and j. And I want this to be equal, if I take the inner product of these embeddings to be equal, to a function that only depends on the relative difference. In every existing embedding before it didn't really fulfill this equality. Like sine is not relative because it has these absolute cross terms that are not relative. Absolute position embeddings just by the name of it is obviously not relative. And then relative embeddings, technically these are relative, but they're not kind of embeddings because they're just adding to the attention matrix, right? So there's no inner product structure that you can extract out of this guy. So given this, you might ask, is there a nice way that we can truly have this relative embedding? And the idea is very cool. It's really just looking at kind of properties about angles and cosines. So we want our embeddings to be invariant to absolute positions. And we know that inner products of any kind are invariant to arbitrary rotation. So the idea is to say, I'm going to take my semantic word vectors, the ones that are independent of any position. So this is my starting point. And then I'm going to rotate each of these vectors, in this case in 2D, based on the position that the words appear. So just as a simple example, we, let's say, we have the sentence, we know that. We appear as that position, 0. So I'm not going to touch that at all. I'm just going to keep that where it is. The word no is that position, 1. So I'm going to rotate it by some angle. And that's my one position rotation. Now, what happens if I apply the same idea to the following sequence? Of course, we know. In this case, we and no are still adjacent. They're right next to each other. But they're absolute position as shifted. Of course, comes before we know now. In this case, I'm going to rotate the word we by two positions, because it's two index, 0, 1, 2. So the word we is in the second position number two. So I rotate by two. I rotate no by three positions, because it's in position number three. And what do you know? The relative angle between these two is still separated by one. So this is a very, very simple idea of just using rotations to represent position. And if we do that, then anytime we take an inner product, those inner products are going to be invariant of absolute positions. Now you might say, well, in two dimensions, that's pretty easy, because you've only really got one choice. You've got clockwise and counterclockwise. But in high dimensions, there's an infinite space of ways that you can rotate vectors. So what do you do in D dimensions? Well, you do the simplest possible thing, And it works. The simplest possible thing is to reduce it to the 2D case repeatedly. So if a D-dimensional vector just cut it up into chunks of 2 and each pair of two dimensions gets rotated. And the theta at which these things rotate vary, right? Some of them are very low frequencies. They rotate very slowly so they can capture long range dependence. Some of them rotate very quickly so they capture things like are they neighbors to each other, right? And then at the end, after I've rotated every pair of vectors, I get sort of my final embedding. So this is the rope approach. The paper, if you read it, has a very complex motivation about complex numbers. But really, I think the intuitive way, at least to me, to think about it, is to just you want to rotate by reducing to the two-dimensional case, and you're just rotating every pair of coordinates. Gamma 4 just came out on Thursday, and they have another different kind of fun thing that they do, which they call, I think, proportional rope or p-rope, which is a really strange way to just say that the only thing they rotate is the first two coordinates, but that's another valotine that you can do as well. So there's a lot of different things that you can do in this space that end up working. OK, in practice, what you're going to end up doing is you can take your vector and you can make a sparse multiply with signs and cosines, and this is going to be giving you some way of rotating or input vectors x is, right? So x times w times r, this is going to be your final embedding that you get. OK. And finally, this is a sign in cosine, which looks a little like sign embeddings, but it's really important that I'm multiplying with these signs in cosines rather than using them as embeddings, because that means that there are no cross terms. And this is purely relative, right? There's no absolute position of information that you'll get out of inner products. If we really, really want it to get into low-level details And you ask, how do I actually implement this thing? You're going to have to do that. You have your usual attention stuff. And then what you do is you generate cosine and sine angles based on the position IDs of where your sequence is. And then you're going to apply those cosines and signs onto both your queries and keys for your attention computation. And you can either apply them as a matrix multiplier. You can go through and apply them manually just as a rotation. Fairly straightforward. And you would do this at the attention level rather than at the very bottom to sort of enforce position in variance every time you're doing attention accommodations. OK, so that was rope. It is a little bit confusing, but once you understand the geometry of just rotating things, it's actually fairly straightforward. OK, I'm going to pause here for one moment in case anyone has questions about the various architecture bits. We're going to then talk about even more level details about hyper parameters. So yes. Do you know about any havers that do a higher dimensional rotation? Higher dimensional rotations. It's a good question. I don't think so. By a higher dimensional rotation, like any 2D rotation in the space would just be kind of a variant of this. You could certainly do like any one manifold that like is a closed loop. I have not seen that. Yes. What do you think is the best way to instill this knowledge from a person that's cool? It's a good question. I don't know if there's a way beyond some combination of looking broadly enough to get a pattern which is what the procedure I'm trying to do in this lecture here, and then the other one is to try it yourself, even a much smaller scale, to form an intuition and a theory for how these things come together. I think those two are really the right ways. I think reading any single paper and isolation is very, very difficult, especially now, because no single paper seems to give any full detail for a lot of language models these days. Oh, lots of questions now, okay, good, We'll go in. Yeah. So, I have a question on the parallel layers in the receiver layers. Yeah, I understand the motor models are thinking of the use of the agency. So they will use the parallel layers. Yeah, but there's a different, there's a thing from between the accuracy for these two patterns, right? I would not know what's the, what's the difference of accuracy? Is it picking up? Is this more enough to allow the color of the model tree that is too big of our choice? Any more? Yeah, I think. You know, that's actually really mixed. So if you read the original pom paper, I think they're very confident about the use of parallel layers. Like no performance drop, 15% systems utilization improvement. So if you read just that, you'll kind of say, oh, it's just as good. But I think a lot of the later Google models have stopped using this, which you can take on as an implicit signal that actually there might be some losses. And once again, this one is a little bit hard to get precise numbers on, because no one's done the ablation. So as far as I know, on parallel versus serial, controlled nice ablations, at least, yeah. But what's the difference between, like, p-roll and p-roll quite a bit? Yeah, yeah, I mean, this difference is really just, like, which of the coordinates you're working? Like, you don't rotate most of them, because a lot of the, I mean, the argument originally, I think, is that the low frequency parts just aren't rotating very much. And so you can drop them if you're really strapped for sort of extra space. And this is really an optimization for teeny tiny models where you don't have very much hidden dimensions to have activations for. Yeah. For the relative embeddings, not having an inner product, is that because it only applies to keys? Yeah, so they apply both the keys and values, which is why you get this relative effect from where you are. You want to not have cross terms, right? So if you look at the sine and cosine embeddings, then you'll not only get the original vectors, you'll kind of get these weird cross terms between the position embeddings and the word embedding themselves, and so on and so forth. And then you could kind of back out what the absolute position is. So even sine and cosine embeddings are not like pure relative position embeddings. You have to accept the premise that the relative embedding is what you want. But once you do kind of you end up at the rope solution, somewhat naturally. Yeah. So what's the issue with this, is that it can't be factorized as a product. That's more of an aesthetic problem, right? If your constraints are, I need it to be relative, and I need it to factorize as f of x i and f of y j, then this is not a solution in that class. To be fair, there's a lot of embeddings that work this way, that do work. Like alibi and other kinds of like approaches, like do do this kind of inject into the attention matrix and they do reasonably well. It's not necessarily the one that's become the dominant approach as well, I can say. Now I'll talk about hyper parameters. And I think hyper parameters are really something that you start to engage with once you actually have to train a model, right? When your knowledge about language models are abstract, you don't have to care about any of these. But once you have to instantiate it, you start to ask questions like, well, how big should the feed forward size be? How many heads should I have? What should my vocab size be, right? And you might also have questions of like, what should my weight decay or drop out be? Like, do I even need to regularize? I have a lot of tokens, right? So do I need regularization? And do I need very deep models or very wide models? Like, what are the right kinds of things to do here, right? In all of these, if you start out with no knowledge, it's actually very daunting, because you have to search this like very big, high-dimensional space. But the space of things that people try is actually pretty small. And from that, maybe you can start to think about smarter search processes of where you want to vary things. One of the things that's a really consensus hyper parameter is this idea of the ratio between the feed forward size, which is the output of your first matrix multiply in an NLP and the model dimension. So this is really the ratio of the two dimensions of your W1 and as well your W2 matrix. This seems like a thing that's very important and controls kind of the richness of your MLPs. So what should it be? Well, for whatever reason, it should maybe be four times your hidden dimension, right? And this is a rule of thumb that works remarkably well. And I will show you some data on why maybe this is a fine number to choose. There's a few exceptions. And funnily enough, the really extreme exceptions kind of backtrack on that. Okay, exception number one is variants of the gated linear unit. I already told you about this. So if you were thinking about it, this is probably cached in your head, right? GLUs have more parameters, right? If you keep the same dimensions. So if you want to keep the parameter size of your MLP's the same, well, you need to scale down by two thirds, right? So most GLU variants, this means that you're going to end up with something like 2.67-ish, right? So everyone that's down here, 2.67 to 2.5, this is roughly applying this like 2 thirds correction. And then for whatever reason, the Lama 2 folks decided, well, we actually have very efficient attention heads with like MQA, which I'll talk about later. And because of that, we can multiply this ratio by an arbitrary 1.33 and we'll get roughly 3.5. And so the Lama people arbitrarily chose a slightly different ratio, which essentially emphasizes the MLPs a little bit more. But really, if you actually look through all the papers, you'll find either 2.6ish or 3.5 for GLUs, or four, if you're doing non-GLU models. OK. There's another exception, which I find to be very funny, but also very, very cool, which is throughout as you read these technical reports, You'll find that most people are just very boring in their choice of architectures. They're like, we did llama, but we changed one thing. But folks at Google are very bold sometimes. And T5 is one of my favorite ones, because they have some really bold settings. They decided that, instead of following this 4x rule of thumb, they decided that they want to have a 64x multiplier, which is way bigger than 4. And they have a reasonable argument for this as well. This is another systems-based argument. They said, well, if the bigger my matrix multiplies, the more efficient I can keep my hardware. So if I make this multiplier really big, then my matrix multiplies can potentially be more efficiently utilized. And some others like Gemma 2 have also tried to really push a little bit higher on this. But really, T5 is a kind of astounding exception at 64. I don't think any other model has really gone that high in the feed-forward multiplier. And empirically, if you look at other sort of works that try to do more controlled comparisons of this ratio, I've taken this one from Kaplan in 2020. This is the classic neural scaling loss paper where they do sort of various controlled studies on language models. You'll see, this wasn't the point of the study, it was a scaling loss study, but you'll see in one of the panels that they actually have a sort of ablation or a sweep where they change the feed forward ratio and they look at the loss, right? For a very small model here, right? But what they find in this paper is there's a basin where you start about one and you end about maybe 10 where this hyperparameter is like pretty good and very, very flat. You lose very little relative to the optimal loss down here, right? And then if you get it really wrong, like you get above 10 to 100 or something like that, Then your loss starts really shooting up quite radically. And so a lot of these choices that range between like 2.64, they're all kind of falling into this relatively nice basin, so you're fine choosing those numbers. OK, so what can we learn about this hyperparameter? Well, the default choices have worked very well for nearly all modern language models, so you can safely choose that. T5 was a fine model, or the Virgin 1 T5 was a fine model. It wasn't a bad model. And so even radical choices can technically work. But it's probably going to be compute inefficient. And I think the funniest part of the saga, of this kind of the punchline of the T5 saga to me, is that they have a follow-up model, T5, V1.1. That's like supposed to be the improved version of T5. And they kind of go back to the standard 2.5 multiplier. So there's nothing explicitly stated here. But clearly, when they tried to update T5, they decided that they wanted to go back to a more standard multiplier, which I find to be a little bit funny. OK, so that's the feed forward ratio, which now you have a rough sense of what the right order of magnitude is. Now let's talk about a different consensus hyperparameter. I always found this to be very strange when teaching 2.24N and teaching students about this, which is if you have a multi-head attention, where you have multiple heads for your attention in your transformer, the canonical thing to do, the thing that almost everyone does, is if you have multiple heads, you make sure that the size of those heads, the head dimension, is such that you have the same dimension as a single head transformer. So you always make sure that you divide the hidden dimension to basically multiply with h. So in this case, you have h, the number of heads, and the dimension of each head is d over h. So you multiply the two and you get d. For some reason, this is the rule of thumb. Of course, this doesn't have to be true. We can arbitrarily change the ratios between head dimensions and model dimensions, but most models do follow this guideline. And it turns out to work pretty well. You know, we can look at a variety of different models classic in you, I have the latest and greatest quite as well. And you kind of find, yeah, the ratios are roughly around one, a model head. Notable exception of T5, and even Miami, though, which is another Google model. But really, everyone sticks around one. And I think this is kind of an interesting one. I think the thing about head dimensions that I'll end with here is I think this is yet another kind of forgiving hyperparameter. There's a couple of relations that people have done. There's once again a pretty wide basin around one that you can sort of get away with. OK, but that one's maybe not the most critical hyperparameter. I think maybe one of the most critical and interesting ones, I think conceptually, is this idea of an aspect ratio, right? And sort of to add an extra point here, when you scale models up or down, the way you usually do that is you fix an aspect ratio, like how wide your model is versus how deep it is, and then you make the whole model bigger, right? So the aspect ratio in some sense controls the entire depth to width trade off as you make models bigger, right? Now, you might wonder how deep should my model be? Like if you've been following all this stuff on like reasoning and so on, you might think, I need a really deep model or really shallow model if I want systems of utilization, you might think that there's a lot of sort of variation. And there is a lot of variation, much more so than other hyper parameters. But there's actually a fairly clear sweet spot that most modern models fall into. You don't really see models go too deep. And you also don't see models go too wide in either direction. You see most models have a ratio of about 100 D model over N layers, so about 100 with for every layer that you have. I mean, this is true for like GPT-3 or LAMA or any one of these models. And really, I think the considerations are partly a trade-off between expressiveness and hardware. If you have an extremely, extremely deep model, they get very, very annoying to deal with systems-wise. The deeper your model, what is the ways that you have for paralyzing them? Well, you might have to cut up your layers. If you cut up your layers, we'll talk about this in the systems lecture. Once you start cutting up your layers depth-wise, you have very serious issues in paralyzation. Pipeline Parallel, which is what this is called, is something that most people really, really do not want to deal with. Where it's width is much easier to paralyze. If you have a really wide model, you can cut that up very easily in your GPUs. TensorFlow Parallel is what it's called is much, much simpler to deal with. And so in some sense, there are systems reasons to go wide. And maybe there's expressiveness reasons to go deep. And you end up at roughly 100. And I think one of the really interesting things about transformer hyperparameters is there a lot of hyperparameters that seem quite important, but they're also fairly forgiving. And people have converged roughly on the minimum. This is yet another pot from Kaplan at all, which shows another sweep over hyperparameters for differently sized models. And once again, you see, regardless of kind of the size of your model, roughly speaking the optimal mass spectre ratio is fairly similar. And they live at about 100, maybe a little bit less, depending on how you want to do the accounting. But really, anywhere near 100 is a pretty safe bet for aspect ratios. EK and others did a number of really interesting architecture variation experiments in which their general conclusion on this was that, let's look at the top panel here, you have a lot of different kinds of models that you can have in terms of depth to width trade-offs. But as you sort of sweep the depth with trade-offs, you find that really the only thing that matters in some sense is flops. As you increase the flops, the models get better. And that's really controlling the majority of the effects, not necessarily the aspect ratio. And so I think what has really emerged from this is the sense that there's a general forgiving band of hyper parameters that people tend to choose. And then you really worry about primarily your systems utilization rather than sort of expressiveness concerns which are hard to reason about. OK, and then maybe the last hyper parameter thing that I want to mention is vocabulary sizes. And this one's kind of interesting to me because there's a really clear difference between two classes of models. I think in the early days of open source model training, there were a lot of modeling goal models whose only goal was to be good on English. And for those models, you have these much smaller vocab size in the 30,000 range. And then post-slamma, a lot of people were really interested in multilingual or production systems. These include co-source models like GBD4. All of these have much, much larger vocab size. And these are roughly in the 100 to 200,000 vocab range. And you see generally that Google models have a ton more vocab. Lama derivatives roughly range at about 100,000 tokens. And then the sort of model angle models are about 30,000. This is somewhat clear. The multi-lingual models really do need much larger vocab to cover the whole space. Generally, the models on the right are also bigger. There have been scaling law studies showing that the bigger your model, the larger the vocab it can handle. And so this is also partially driven by modern scaling trends where the models on the right are generally bigger. No one's training small model, sorry, large model-lingual models anymore. Okay, so yeah. Sorry, the question was like, if you have multilingual models or, sorry, multi-modal. Yeah, so I guess it depends on the way that your tokens are encoded, but if you're tokenizing your images and things like that, then you need to have many more tokens that count for those. If you look at various open source releases, they'll have a different image tokenizer with its own vocab, which is quite large. Yeah. Does it's too rare to find support? Valid is it to compare bits? Oh, that is a great question. Okay, yeah. That's not a hyper primer question That is a good question. So what is the right way? So let me step back a moment and put us in the right mindset. So if we think about language modeling, language modeling is a generative modeling task. We are modeling the probability of a sequence. Now, as long as your sequence is fixed, it's the same. You haven't adulterated it anyway. And you provide a probability of overall strings that's always valid to compare. At that level of things, it's always valid. Now, when you ask the question, is it valid to compare the bits per byte of arbitrary token, or two arbitrary tokenizers? Really, there's two things that play. The one thing is, did you touch the sequence at all? If you look at some tokenizers in the past before subword tokenizers, they would drop some tokens or drop some words. That changes, that makes the comparisons invalid. But modern tokenizers are complete, they can model any sequence, so that's not a concern. The other thing that you have to worry about is are we like length normalizing in any way, right? But for bits per byte, you're always normalizing with the same number, which is the number of bytes. And so this is always about comparison, right? So that's kind of how to think about tokenizer comparisons. So like that, measures, this is the third option for the things they've proven for us. Perplexity of ePV or kind of duality together, say yes, that's what you're asking. It's only yes, it's only no, because if you're comparing, If you could frame, but you're changing a different way. OK, well, we'll have to talk later, because I'm not sure I understand that question. But I think that's an interesting set of questions. Good. So we're going through really the lowest levels of details of language modeling, which I think has really exposed a lot of interesting ideas while we sort of talk through this. And I think dropout is one of the end regularization. I think is another very interesting class of ideas. Also one that I think is very counterintuitive for your machine learning 101 intuition. So let's go through what I think is like the standard argument for regularization. Well, if I'm doing language modeling, I have a lot of data. I have more data than I can process most of the time. Unless you're at Google, maybe even then, there is more internet data than there is flops. So I'm probably not even going to see the same data twice. So I'm only going to do a single pass on a corpus. And there's very good reasons and arguments to believe that a single pass of SGD or other optimizers is never really going to memorize my data very much. So this means overfitting is not really a problem, almost ever during compute constrained language model. Now, some people even actually only look at training loss because they believe so strongly that overfitting doesn't happen in single pass SGD. Now given this, you can sort of sit and think about this, Should I use dropout or wait decay in language model training? You can think about it a bit. One unfortunate thing is that a lot of recent models don't talk about this stuff at all. It's really lower level details than tech reports are willing to expose. But if you look, actually, you find a lot of models do both, especially wait decay actually is a fairly popular intervention, even for modern high-performance language models. This is very, very surprising. I mean, some of the dropout things maybe have gone out of favor, but weight decay actually remains fairly popular. And this is very mystifying. Like, why is this? And this is one of the reasons why I think deep learning is hard and this architecture lecture is very strange and hard. It's because these things interact in very strange ways. So there have been papers that have argued and shown nice evidence that weight decay is actually not a regularizer sometimes. It actually interacts with the optimizer to essentially make optimization better. So if you look at the training versus validation loss across different weight decay settings on language model training for single-paths SGD, you don't really see any difference. Weight decay isn't shifting things the validation loss is better. There's already no overfitting around the x equals y line here, right? So doesn't control overfitting, but if we kind of look at different levels of weight decay, and not only just different levels of weight decay, we look at weight decay combined with learning great decay, what we find is that the stronger weight decay runs, these blue dash lines on the bottom, do significantly better because they start out slow, but they essentially end up converging to a much better minimum later. And this is generally true when we decay learning grade, not necessarily true when we're in constant learning grade, which is maybe somewhat more of where your intuition is coming from. So this is part of why it's very difficult to reason, sort of a priori or like from scratch, the behavior of all these different choices. And why, I think Percy and I have designed this class so that you interact with stuff, because you might come upon this thing that we're basically, wait the case, actually an optimization intervention and not necessarily a regularization intervention, which is, you know, what you would expect here, right? So always keep that in mind that these kinds of unexpected effects can really start to kick in for these kinds of settings. Cool. All right, so to put everything together for hyper parameters, there's actually for, you know, a lot of the maybe more hairy looking hyper parameters actually just fairly standard choices that have worked well for everybody. Factor a four rule of thumb, keep your head dim in your number of heads equal to the model dimension, pick an aspect ratio roughly around 100. And if you ask about regularization, you want to maybe try a couple things because regularization actually does interact with optimizers in ways that are quite counterintuitive. So this is the thing that some people still do, even though you don't need the regularization at all. I see, maybe I'll stop here, in case, yeah. Show differences, thank you for like, ooh, diffusions. That, I have not looked into it off to be honest. There aren't that many people training big diffusions as one issue, and many of the models that have been trained are retrofitted. So I think the architectures are actually the same as the, you know, like a lot of my like model. But if you're asking the question of like, what's the optimal architecture, if you work to train from scratch, I don't know what that is actually off of my head. Yeah. for why regularization was supposed to be? Well, I guess it's not that regularization in general effects optimization. I don't think people do drop out anymore because it doesn't really interact well with optimization. But for example, wait decay, which is shrinkage to zero. That might allow you to use a higher learning rate or it might allow you to decay faster. There are lots of ways in which all of these terms are interrelated. Now, I've talked a lot about how to design expressive models by looking at all these other models that have been trained. One of the things that I'll highlight now is over the last few years, a really big emphasis has not been on performance alone. It has actually been on stability. And this becomes an increasingly important concern as your models get more and more expensive to train. We've kind of seen that a lot of these choices are forgiving. Everyone's kind of doing similar stuff. And so you can mess with these, but you're not going to get a big performance difference. That's fine. But if your model suddenly blows up some part into training like you get these like horrible looking spikes all over the place, you might end up with a model that is actually not very good quality, right? Or it might be unrecoverable, you might have spent millions of dollars in training, and you get to a point where the model is no longer able to be trained any further, right? That would be a horrible thing to happen if you have a lot of compute that you want to spend. So you don't want to train models that look kind of like this blue curve or like spikes everywhere and these big gradient norms happening. So what do we do to fix these stability issues? I mean, this is really, I would say, a core core issue. And if you have stability issues in language models or in general neural networks, there's a few usual suspects that you've got to start looking at. One of them is the softmaxes. And the softmax has two things that are both really bad for stability. One of them is an exponential. You can see how that blows up very quickly. You also divide two numbers, and that's also a potentially very dangerous operation. So a softmax is one place where you got to be extra, extra careful. And where are the softmaxes in a language model? Well, there's two of them. There is one on the output side when we output our probability distribution. And then in attention, when we normalize the attention, there's going to be another softmax, right? So we can think of both of those as really kind of danger zones for our model, especially the attention. But OK, let's start with thinking about the output softmax. The output softmax can blow up on us. And one of the things that we can do is we can try to control the normalizer problem. So let's think about the softmax calculation. We want to compute a log probability to compute the loss. Now, what is the log probability? Well, it's the output of your model, U. And then you've got this log normalizer. This U is well behaved, because in some sense, this is the output of your model. This is just the output of your residual stream with all the things that are added in. So if u is well behaved, then log p, the first term is well behaved, the model is being OK. Now the second term, this log z, this might not be so OK. If z is really big or really small, even if the output of your model is somewhat well behaved, they could blow up. And what is z? Well, it's an exponential. So it could potentially blow up very quickly on you. Or if this is zero, it could also blow up on you. So both of those directions are very, very bad. Now, we would ideally like our z to be somewhere near 1, or log z to be somewhere near 0. What can we do? Well, one of the things that you notice, if you sort of thought about the action of the softmax, is this whole thing is over parameterized. I could sort of push things in and out. So if I add a constant to you, I can manipulate the z's without really affecting the output of the softmax. You can cancel out between the normalizer and sort of the output of my model. So because of that property, one thing that I could do is I could add a regularizer. This is from Jacob Devlin's paper, 2024, sorry, 2014, in which he adds sort of the squared log z term. And what this is doing is it's just penalizing how far away your log z is from zero. And if log z is near zero, that's nice because this whole expression is kind of numerically stable. This is called the ZLOS trick. It's been used by a number of papers. Jacob Devlin and others initially pioneered this back in 2014. And then it's become popular again through a number of open source models. Like, Baichwan, I think, was the first open source model to do it, but then DCLM and all more and others have been using this trick to stabilize their output softmaxes. So this is a surprisingly effective thing. Now, OK, so let's say we've handled the instability issues on the output softmax. Now we have to sort of turn our attention towards the other potential problem, which is attention. And this is a place where lots of degeneracies happen. Lots of techniques have been developed to control the instability that attention operations generate. And really the high level thing that I'll say is if you have instability, if you can throw a layer norm in there somehow, it might control it. And that's really, in some sense, the design philosophy behind this idea called the QK norm. So what you do is remember that we have our Q's and K's that are going to be multiply together, and then they're going to go into the softmax. So in the standard attention operation, I'm going to layer norm as a pre-layer norm, multiply with a QKV, and then I'm going to get my Q's and K's. Those will get multiplied by a matrix multiply all softmax them, and I'll multiply that with V to get the weighted average, and then I'll output whatever comes after, right? So this is our usual attention. Now, what happens if we just throw in a layer norm before we multiply the q's and k's? If we do that, then we know that the inputs to this matrix multiply, and therefore the inputs to the soft max roughly have the same scale. They're always going to have a scale of roughly one because we've used RMS norm to divide the size of those q's and k's. OK, if we do that, then we're going to keep the softmax operations stable. Tons of different models do this. It's originally from the multi-modal world, some folks who are doing multi-modal model, sort of initially discovered QK norm, e-tifix and chameleon, really use this and prove that out. And then a number of other open-source language models realize that the same tricks are entirely applicable to stabilizing attention for language models. And I think this is now very, very standard. Like, QK norm is actually a very standard intervention that most of the large models now introduce. It doesn't seem to affect performance from lots of different training runs, but it does definitely prevent the kinds of attention degeneracies. And I'm really, the way that I've seen this is we have layer norms, initially in the pre-norm. Now, we add them after the nonlinearities in each block, and now we're throwing them in both the cues and the case. And really, I think this is kind of getting at the stabilization tricks that people apply to this world. OK. Now, the final set of things that I'll talk about as a stability intervention. And frankly, this one is not as popular and more of a Google specific trick that I've seen. But low-jit soft capping is a much harder intervention that some people apply. So this one, in QK norm, what we're doing is we are controlling the inputs, the soft max, and hoping that the outputs are well-behaved. If we really, really want to enforce well-behaved outputs, what we can do is we can take the low-jits, the things that go straight into the soft max, and we can just cap them off. So they can never be too large or too small. This is almost a hard constraint. It's called a soft cap, of course, but a tan H is bounded at some value. And so this is in the gamma models. I think both gamma or like gamma is 2, 3, and 4. All use the logettes soft cap trick. And what they do is they take all of their logettes for the attention layers. And then they soft cap them at some value. Some Nvidia folks have done actually quite nice work doing systematic comparisons of these stability interventions. And what they find is if you start with a baseline model, you can do all sorts of different interventions. And QK norm is here, and it does slightly better due to the fact that you can crank up the learning rate a little bit. But if you do soft-capping alone, you actually end up losing performance. So there is a quality degradation that happens. This is a very strong intervention. You can never express very confident signals in your soft-max beyond a certain point. So it does have some negative consequences, But this is a very safe way of stabilizing the outputs of your attention, or sorry, the inputs to your attention, the logents that go into the soft next. OK, so that's kind of the end of the stability components. I can pause for a moment here, and I'll talk about various attention things after that. OK, all right, so the last thing I want to talk about today is various interventions that you can make your attention. And as I was saying at the beginning of this lecture, I'm only going to talk about all the things that you can do to sort of dance all by all attention today. So if you were interested in hearing about state space models or linear time attention, sadly today is not the day for you. The things that I do want to talk about, which are really commonly implemented attention interventions today, are group query attention, which really saves their inference costs by reducing the number of heads, and sparse or sliding window attention, which really originally came from the GPT-3-ish family, but have now really been adopted widely by most models that are looking to do a long context, unless they're doing exotic SSM stuff. So I'll start with group query attention or GQA or MQA, this, I'm going to first set up the need for these kinds of things, and then you'll kind of hopefully see what the trick is and why it's fairly natural. So for the moment, we've been talking about training modeling and all these things, but let's take a pause. And now let's think about deployment. You've trained this very big model, and now you need to serve it to lots of users. And you're going to pay a cost for serving. And you're going to have to, in abstract sense, pay for two different resources. You're going to have to pay for your flops, the computation that you perform. But you also have to pay for another thing. You have to pay for your memory accesses. Because the memory accesses are also going to impact your system's characteristics. your latency or utilization. So you want both of these things to be small. Now, let's think about what happens during training or alternatively pre-fill when you're looking at your prompt where someone gives you the stuff. In this case, the total arithmetic operations you have is order of magnitude, batch size, sequence length, hidden dim squared. That's roughly the size of things that you get. And of course, we're doing quadratic attentions so we've got d squared. We've got total memory accesses. Like, what is our memory access that we have here? We have batch time sequence, like times hidden dim, plus the sort of cost of the soft maps, which has an n squared component. And then we've got a d squared component for the projections. So the arithmetic intensity here is pretty good. It's going to be 1 over k. This is the number of heads. So you need to have, sorry, head dims. So your head dims need to be big enough that you're multiplying some reasonably sized matrices. And you've got a 1 over bn, so your sequences need to be long enough, or your batch sizes need to be big enough. As long as both of these are true, your GPUs are going to be fully utilized. Great, right? You're using all of your resources. Now, you know, we have finished training, and now we're serving our users. How do we serve our users? We're going to generate tokens and send it to them, right? Now if we're doing that, I can't paralyze the generation process. What I'm going to do is I'm going to generate a token. I'm going to condition on it. I'm going to generate the next token, and I'm going to repeat this process. This is just sort of the curse of autoregressive language modeling we have to do this. In order to do this, the efficient way to do it is to maintain all of the sort of past keys and queries that I've had in what's called the KV cache. So the KV cache is going to maintain this matrix of Q dot K over the past. And then whenever I need to compute something new, I can reuse sort of the sub matrices that I've already had from the past. And I only really need to compute sort of the new query key interactions that I need to fill out the rest of this matrix, right? So every sub matrix I've computed before, I can keep, I only need to compute my new one. So this saves a lot on compute, right? That's great. But the issue here is now our arithmetic intensity is not so good, right? As you might sort of intuit, this KV cache approach is going to be reading parameters all the time. Each time I have a new step, I'm going to have to read in my parameters. I'm going to have to take these dot products. And I'm going to do this once every step. And so now what do I have? Well, my total arithmetic operations are the same. I'm multiplying the same matrices still, just incrementally rather than all at once. But because I'm doing this incrementally, Now I have a memory access pattern of batch by sequence squared by hidden them, plus sequence by hidden them squared. And the second term is not so pleasant, right? It used to be that it was just d squared, but now we've got n times d squared. And if we compute the arithmetic intensity, which is the ratio of these two guys, now we have n over d plus 1 over b. So now what we need is large batches plus sequence length, or we need really big model dimensions. So if we want to serve a small model efficiently, this is not so good, right? This is really difficult to deal with, right? This n over d term, this first term over here, which is sequence length over hidden them, is very difficult to reduce if we're doing this incremental computation. This is just a hard thing to deal with. So this leads to this idea of mqa or multi-query attention. Normally, you have multiple heads in your attention operation, and you're going to have different keys, different values, and different queries. That's normally how you do things. But one thing that we could do is maybe we can keep the k's and the v's the same across all the heads. And the only thing that's different across the heads are the queries. If we do this, then this drastically removes the amount of items that need to be moved in and out of memory, because the KV cache are now significantly smaller. These are all shared across all the heads. This significantly reduces the total memory access as well as the arithmetic intensity. And we're kind of the key term that we were talking about here. We had the N over D term. Now we have H multiplying this. So this H term allows us to significantly reduce the increase the arithmetic intensity if we have a lot of heads, right? This is a significant gain over what we had before. So this gets us significant efficiency improvements, but the issue with MQA is, this is on the right here, you have one value and one key for all these queries, you do, in fact, lose significant expressive power if you do this. And so there's this trade-off between systems efficiency and expressiveness, and you might wonder, is there sort of a sweet spot in which we can avoid trading off quite a significantly expressive power and computation. And that's where GQA or grouped query attention comes in. The original transformer is multi-head. We have queries and keys for each head. In multi-query, we have one key in value for all the heads. In grouped query, we reduce the amount of keys and values, but we keep the number of queries the same. So we now have this ratio that we can play with, which is the number of key heads, or the number of value heads, while keeping the total number of heads much larger than that. So this allows us to very simply control the trade-off, between expressiveness and inference efficiency. There are other tricks from deep-seek B2, multi-head latent tension, that I'll mention briefly next time, which have a different factorization structure in a different set of trade-offs. But really, the nice thing about GQA is that in practice, the trade-off is quite favorable. So if you have multi-head, your performance, this was in the, I think, T5 days, if I remember right. This is your downstream model performance. This is your time per sample. You want to reduce this as much as possible. With multi-head attention, you have best performance, but very high cost. With MQA, you have lower cost, but much lower performance. Similarly, if you make your model smaller to try to hit your performance targets, you get much worse performance. GQA really does get the best of both worlds. Very low inference cost, nearly the same performance as your full multi-head. And you see this GQA group structure where if you have a small reduction in the number of heads, you basically have most of the gains in your performance, which allows you to keep most of the expressive power while getting significant inference improvements. And first, you'll talk a bunch more about the inference mechanics later, but this should give you a flavor of why models today almost all adopt this GQA structure, because it gives you a lot of this inference cost, which is really critical, without very much of a expressiveness hit. Cool. Any questions for GQA or KVK? Yeah. So many rules of thumb is for what hyperpronsors are good. Like, do one of the things still searching over hyperpronsors versus exploiting these rules of thumb to thumb? I think it's a mix of both. I think every sort of model training run has some feces about what can be varied. And so you see this in a lot of the reports where I think the hyperprimeters are often not where people are touching too much. But you see architecture changes one at a time in a lot of these reports. but it's very rare to go and change everything up. I think Google is one of the only works that seems to really spice things up in a significant way. The Gemma series has done some pretty interesting things. The most recent Gemma 4 release, for example, now has individual embedding for every layer in a way to control the trade-offs between memory use and flops. It's a very interesting set of things that they've done. Oh yeah, back there. Do you have experiments with thickly all three? You're a thing. Weight decay? Yes, weight decay people change in concert with like learning rate. That is actually a heuristic that people do. That works very well. Other than that, I don't know if there's a lot of different hypers that people change during training, especially because the architecture ones just make training incompatible. So you can't really change them while you're training. Yeah, so I think weight decay is probably the one that I can think of. The others are usually fixed. Yeah. That's right, yeah, you train with a certain number. The last thing I'll talk about is sliding window attention, which is a really old idea. GPT-3 used actually this, if you read the paper, they'll say we alternate between full attention, which where every position can attend to everyone in the past, in a banded matrix style attention, where you can attend to everyone within a fixed window. And opening up some early work on these kinds of different kinds of attention patterns that you can use. But actually, this has become really, really popular over the past year. This idea of alternating the big full attention and a more local attention actually hits a sweet spot for how to manage long context performance while not paying too much for inference. I think the more recent revival in open models, I would maybe say cohere command A was the first one I saw do it, where they had this structure where every four layers, they would have a full attention that attended to everything. The three layers in between would use a sliding window attention that would only be able to look out local structure. And of course, as you go up, sorry, in this case, down because they ordered the diagram the other way, as you go down these blocks, you're aggregating local information into global ones. The local attention at the end can, of course, access more global information, but this allows you to manage the cost of having a really long context without having to go for something like a state space model or more exotic intervention. And that's worked quite well. There's also some innovation where people change the embedding format for the long range information where they get rid of things like rope. So you have no position embeddings at all. So you're really looking almost at bags where the short range information still gets position information. So people do all sorts of kinds of interventions involving these, both the embeddings and alternating local and global structure. I'll say that this is a, you know, attention and in general, how to manage the trade off between long context and sort of long context cost and performance is still an active area of investigation. It's a place where the most architecture work and changes are still being done. We see essentially a bunch of other models adopt this idea, Lama 4, most recently Gemma 4, Omo 3. They all do this combination of sliding window attention and full attention, in their case, using full rope instead of a nope as the embedding. So as I said, this is becoming really, really popular. When 3.5, which I put on the right, they're actually a little bit different, because they alternate a state space model called gated and a full attention every sort of, you know, one full attention every four layers. So it's the same alternating structure, but they're using a different sort of cheap layer. In their case, they're using a state space model. I'll explain what that is. Next lecture, instead of a sliding window, sort of local attention. But you see this is like, I think, a new theme over the past year, where, you know, open models are really trying to grapple with long context performance. And the way to do that, at least so far, is to have these hybrid models that aren't just global attention, aren't just cheap attention. There's some sort of mix in between. And that seems to have worked very well so far in a lot of these models. OK, cool. So as I was sort of trying to emphasize, when you look across all of these models, you start to see a lot of patterns and hopefully a sense of general understanding about what things you can do and what things are good defaults. We also see a lot of differences in how we handle context and how we handle position embeddings. even tokenization, there's some differences, right? So there are differences across these models, but there's also commonalities that hopefully now give you some intuition as you go out into your assignments and sort of mess with the leader board and so on. Thanks.
