Timestamp: 2026-05-09T20:32:44.319486
Title: Nainsi Dwivedi - Instead of watching an hour of Netflix, watch this 1 hour Yale lectur... 2053043583260012976
URL: https://x.com/NainsiDwiv50980/status/2053043583260012976?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 1:11:53

Description:
这是一份关于期权讲座文本的深度解析，分为作者论点地图、批判性审查以及逻辑架构图。

---

### 第一部分：作者论点地图 (Author's Map)

**1. 核心主张 (Core Thesis)**
期权并非单纯的投机赌博工具，而是完善现代经济体系、实现风险管理、提供价格发现功能以及对齐人类行为动机的关键金融支柱。其核心价值在于通过“无套利定价”原则，为未来各种可能的“自然状态”赋予价格，从而提升社会整体福利。

**2. 论据基础 (Evidentiary Base)**
*   **定义与分类：** 明确看涨/看跌期权（Call/Put）、美式/欧式期权的区别。
*   **理论支撑：** 引用 Kenneth Arrow (1964) 关于状态价格与效率的论文，以及 Stephen Ross (1976) 关于期权完善状态空间的理论。
*   **历史与案例：** 古老的土地期权（农民与超市建设）、2002年 AOL 时代华纳的报纸期权报价。
*   **数学模型：** 二叉树定价模型（Binomial Model）的推导、Black-Scholes 公式及其参数（Sigma, r, T 等）。
*   **市场数据：** VIX 指数（1986年至今）与标普 500 历史波动率（1871年至今）的对比图表。
*   **行为观察：** 将期权类比为恋爱/婚姻决策，以及作为员工激励手段（显著性与注意力）。

**3. 逻辑授权 (Logical Warrant)**
作者的逻辑建立在**“无套利原则” (No-Arbitrage Condition)** 之上。他通过构建一个包含股票和期权的无风险组合，推导出期权价格必须等于该组合按无风险利率折现后的价值。若价格偏离，市场参与者将通过套利消除价差，因此数学公式具有必然的约束力。

**4. 论述范围 (Stated Scope)**
该论述适用于现代金融市场、企业管理（激励期权）、个人财务（抵押贷款、保险）以及宏观经济设计。作者明确指出，尽管期权被视为衍生品，但其逻辑甚至可以延伸至房地产保护等尚未完全开发的领域。

**5. 隐含对手 (Implicit Opponent)**
作者主要针对两类对手：一是以卡尔·马克思为代表、认为不需要金融市场的计划经济支持者（认为缺乏价格信号会导致管理“盲目”）；二是认为期权市场纯属赌场、对社会无益的普通大众或政策制定者。

**6. 预期效果 (Intended Takeaway)**
读者应认识到期权的社会功能，理解其定价背后的科学性，并支持将期权类风险管理工具（如房价保护计划）推广到日常生活中，以减少类似 2008 年金融危机带来的痛苦。

---

### 第二部分：冷峻且公平的批判性审查 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair REVIEW)

**1. 强化论点 (Steelman)**
期权最强大的地方在于它解决了“信息不对称”和“未来不确定性”的定价问题。通过期权，社会能够为“如果发生某事”支付代价，这种精细化风险剥离使得企业家敢于在不确定的未来进行投资（如超市选址案例），这确实是计划经济无法模拟的信息效率。

**2. 最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)**
该论证最致命的依赖是**“正态分布与连续交易”**的假设。
> “Black-Scholes 公式……它假设了分布的正态性。”
如果现实世界中存在“肥尾”效应或“黑天鹅”事件（如作者展示的1929年或1987年尖峰），Black-Scholes 模型会严重低估极端风险。当模型失效时，基于该模型构建的整个风险对冲体系将从“避风港”瞬间变为“系统性风险放大器”。

**3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)**
*   **过时的证据：** 作者使用的 2002 年报纸剪报虽然具有历史感，但无法反映高频交易和算法时代下期权市场的剧烈变动。
*   **幸存者偏差：** 作者提到期权能对齐激励，却忽略了管理层为了让期权“进入价内”而进行短期财务造假或过度冒险的负面激励。
*   **失败的推广：** 作者承认自己推广的“单户住宅期权”在 2006 年失败了，这恰恰说明理论上的“完美工具”在现实流动性和复杂性面前往往难以落地。

**4. 隐藏前提 (Hidden Premises)**
*   **理性假设：** 假设所有参与者都能理解并运用无套利逻辑。
*   **流动性假设：** 假设在需要平仓对冲时，市场永远存在买家。
*   **金融化偏好：** 默认“万物皆可期权化”是社会进步的标志，未考虑过度金融化对实体经济的抽血效应。

**5. 认知盲区 (The Blind Side)**
作者将 2008 年金融危机视为“由于缺乏保护工具”导致的痛苦，但从另一个角度看，正是由于信用违约互换（CDS）等复杂期权产品的过度杠杆和不透明定价，才直接引爆了危机。作者展现了期权的“保险”功能，却淡化了其作为“大规模杀伤性武器”（巴菲特语）的一面。

**6. 致命一问 (One Hit Kill)**
既然期权理论如此成熟且能提供“避风心安”，为什么在 2008 年衍生品市场最发达的时期，这些工具非但没有阻止全球金融崩溃，反而成为了崩溃的导火索？

**7. 如何定论 (What Would Settle It)**
需要一项对比研究：在控制变量的前提下，对比拥有成熟期权市场的行业与缺乏此类市场的行业，在面对同等宏观冲击时，究竟是前者更稳健，还是后者因为没有杠杆放大而受损更小。

---

### 第三部分：逻辑架构图 (Mermaid Diagram)

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    subgraph "💎 讲座核心：期权的本质与价值"
        Core["<b>期权理论与社会福利</b><br/>不仅是工具，更是经济的导航系统"]
        style Core fill:#FFFACD,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:3px,color:#333
    end

    subgraph "🏗️ 理论与功能支柱 (Charitable View)"
        direction TB
        T1["<b>1. 定义基础</b><br/>看涨/看跌, 行权价, 期限"]
        T2["<b>2. 理论合法性</b><br/>Arrow & Ross: 完善状态空间<br/>价格发现功能"]
        T3["<b>3. 定价逻辑</b><br/>无套利原则 (No-Arbitrage)<br/>二叉树 -> Black-Scholes"]
        T4["<b>4. 行为/社会价值</b><br/>激励对齐、心理显著性<br/>保险功能 (心安)"]
        
        Core --> T1 & T2 & T3 & T4
    end

    subgraph "📊 市场与历史验证"
        direction LR
        Data1["<b>VIX 指数</b><br/>市场对未来的预期"]
        Data2["<b>历史波动率 (1871-)</b><br/>揭示大萧条与金融危机"]
        T3 --> Data1
        Data1 --- Data2
    end

    subgraph "🚩 批判性审视 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair)"
        direction TB
        HR_Weak["<b>致命弱点</b><br/>模型依赖正态分布假设<br/>忽视黑天鹅/肥尾风险"]
        HR_Evidence["<b>证据瑕疵</b><br/>过时数据、忽略管理层道德风险<br/>住宅期权市场的失败"]
        HR_Blind["<b>认知盲区</b><br/>期权既是保险也是杠杆<br/>过度金融化可能诱发系统性崩溃"]
        
        HR_Weak --- HR_Evidence --- HR_Blind
    end

    subgraph "⚖️ 综合结论"
        Final["<b>未来展望</b><br/>从投机工具转向全民风险管理<br/>(如房价保护计划)"]
        style Final fill:#C8E6C9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20
    end

    T4 --> Final
    HR_Blind -.-> |"挑战"| Final
    Data2 -.-> |"历史警示"| HR_Weak

    %% --- 样式定义 ---
    classDef theoryNode fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#1565C0,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#0D47A1
    classDef reviewNode fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#EF5350,stroke-width:2px,color:#B71C1C
    classDef dataNode fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#7B1FA2,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#4A148C

    class T1,T2,T3,T4 theoryNode
    class HR_Weak,HR_Evidence,HR_Blind reviewNode
    class Data1,Data2 dataNode

    %% --- 背景样式 ---
    style "🏗️ 理论与功能支柱 (Charitable View)" fill:#F1F8E9,stroke:#689F38,stroke-width:2px
    style "🚩 批判性审视 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair)" fill:#FFF3E0,stroke:#E65100,stroke-width:2px
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
This subject of today's lecture is options. And I want to, I think maybe I better first define what an option is before I move to just saying anything about them, because some of you may not have encountered them. Because you're not part of everyday life for most people. Although they are, in a sense, I'll get back to that. Let me just define terms here. So the, she turned the light on here. I don't know what the switch is. Well, I will just make do. So there's two kinds of options. There's a call and a put. A call option is an option to buy something at a specified price, and the price is called the exercise price or strike price, those are synonyms. And a put option is the right to sell something at the specified exercise price. And it has another term that has to be specified and that's the exercise date, okay. Options go back thousands of years. It must have happened before we have any recorded records. If you want to buy something, you're thinking of buying something from someone, but you don't want to put up the money today. go to some lawyer and say, right up a contract, I want to buy an option to buy this thing. So for example, if you are thinking of building a building on land that is owned now by a farmer but you're not ready to do it, you may be thinking about it. can go to the farmer and say, I'd like to buy that corner of that acre there. I'd like to have the right to buy. I'll pay you now for the right. And you get a lawyer and you write up a contract. And that's an option. You have an option to buy at the exercise price until the exercise date. Now, in modern terminology, we have two kinds, American and European, and it doesn't refer to geography, those two terms. The terms refer instead to when you can exercise. So the American option is better than the European option for the buyer, because the American option can be exercised at any time until the exercise date, whereas a European option can be exercised only on the exercise date. But you see the American option has to be better, or not worse than, if it's strictly better, but not worse than a European option, because you have more options. So I think we have to find what they are. Do you understand well enough what they are they? They occur naturally in life. I remember Avi Nashdixit was writing about options. And he said, well, when you're dating someone, and you know the person will marry you, you have an option, but you can exercise at any time by agreeing to marry. Now one of the theorems in option theories is you usually don't want to exercise a call option early. And so Dixit was saying, well, maybe that's why a lot of people have trouble getting married. They don't want to exercise their option early. What we'll see is that options have option value. They give you a choice. And so there's something there. And when you exercise an option, it means when you actually buy the thing or in the case of a put, sell the thing, then you're losing the choice. So you've given up something. Of course, you have to also exercise eventually if things are going to make sense. Usually when we talk about options, we're talking now about options to buy a share of stock or 100 shares of stock. And that's the usual example, but they occur all over the place. Let me mention some other examples of options. The usual story is the stock option. You go to your broker and you say, I'd like to buy an option to buy 100 shares of Microsoft. I don't want to buy Microsoft, I want to buy an option to buy Microsoft, which happens to be cheaper, by the way, usually cost more money to actually buy the thing, to buy the right to buy the thing at another price, we'll get back to that. But in a sense, let's think about this, stocks themselves are options, in a sense, because it was a zero exercise price. Maybe I'll have to get back and explain that. But what I mean is, let me get back and explain that in a minute. But let me go ahead to the other examples, mortgages, ordinary home mortgage has an option characteristic to it. In the sense that, if the price of your home drops a lot, you can just walk away from the mortgage and say, I'm out of here. It's like not exercising an option. It's analogous. Or I can choose to prepay a mortgage early. And that's like exercising an option. The option pricing gets into all sorts of things. OK, so I thought I should say something about the purposes of options before I move on to try to discuss what their properties and pricing are, which is the main subject of this lecture. I can give two different justifications for options. Why do we have options? Some people cynically think that options are just gambling vehicles. It's another way to gamble. You can go to the casino. You can play poker or you can buy options. Well, I think for some people, that's just what it is. The volatile, risky advancements that can make you a lot of money. But I think they have a basic purpose. And so our purpose is, first of all, theoretical. If we're trying to design the ideal financial system, what would we do? And I think back, some people thought of ideal economic systems without reference to finance, like Karl Marx that come back to him, the great communist thought that we would have an ideal communist state. And there'd be no financial markets. When they actually tried it, and they tried to do it, I think they gradually realized that not having any financial markets makes our entrepreneurship, our management of enterprises kind of blind. We can't see where we're going, because there's no prices. We don't know what anything is worth. There was an old joke that the communist countries survived only because they had prices from capitalist countries to rely on. Otherwise, they don't know anything about values or profits. So we need prices. And I just trace that many people have written about this. But I mentioned in 1964 Kenneth Arrow, who is an economic theorist, wrote a classic paper in which he argued that, unless we have prices for all states of nature, there is a sense in which the economic system is inefficient. You really need the price of everything, including the price of some possibility. In a sense, that's what options are giving you. The existence of options are giving you. So Stephen Ross, who used to teach here at Yale, a friend of mine, lives here in New Haven in 1976 in the quarterly journal of economics wrote a classic paper about options showing that in a sense they complete the state space. They create prices for everything that affects decision-making. So I'm not going to get into the technicalities of the paper, but I wanted to start with the theoretical justification for options, so you'll see why we're doing it. I don't want this to come across as a lecture how you can gamble in the options market. This is about making things work right for the economic system, improving human welfare. But a lot of people don't get that. That's why Karl Marx was so successful. It seems too abstract. What does this options market do for us? But let me just go back to the example I started out with. You're a construction firm and you're thinking of building something, a new supermarket, right? Where people can buy their food. And you know that there's a pair of expressways crossing somewhere and you think that's the perfect place to build a mega supermarket because everyone can get there by car and there's a lot of land. I can build a big parking lot, perfect. But before you think further, you go to buy an option on the land, right? You knock on the door at the farmhouse and there's a farmer with all these acres and you say, I'm thinking of building a mega supermarket here. I'd like to buy an option on your farm. You learn something at that moment. You might learn that the farmer says, I've already sold an option, so I can't do it. You can try to talk to the person I sold it to and see if you can buy it from him. Or the farmer might say, I've had three other offers and I'm raising my price to some millions of dollars, then you have a second thoughts about doing it. Do you see what I'm saying that the price discovery is in there? It's making things happen differently. You're learning something. The farmer is learning something. You are learning something from the options market and ultimately it decides where that super market will go. That's the theoretical purpose of options. But I wanted to talk also about a behavioral purpose of options, or it's a little fuzzier about the actual benefits of options from this standpoint. The behavioral theory of options says that, well it's very, very many different aspects of human behavior tie into options. But I would say it has something to do with attention anomalies and salience. Psychologists talk about this that people make mistakes very commonly in what they pay attention to, what strikes their fancy or their imagination. This is something psychologists also talk about, that certain kinds of events, maybe similar to salient events or events that tend to attract attention, tend to be remembered. Now, you think of options. A lot of options are what are called incentive options. When you get your first job, you may discover this, they'll give you options to buy shares in the company you work for, why do they do that? I think it's because of certain human behavioral traits that I mentioned here at your attention and your salience, but it's not necessarily very expensive for a company to give you options to buy shares in the company, but it puts you in a situation where you start to pay attention to the value of the company. It becomes salient for you and you start hoping that the price of the company will go up because you have options to buy it at a strike price. You hope that the company's price per share goes above your strike price because then your options are worth something, they're in the money. So it may change your motivation and your morale at work or sense of identity with the company. All these sorts of things figure in. And so that's why we have incentive options. They can also give you peace of mind. And insurance is actually related to options in the sense that when you buy insurance on your house, it's like buying a put option on your house. Although it may be not directly connected to the home's value, but when you buy insurance policy on your house and the house burns down, you collect on the insurance policy. Well, the price of your house fell to zero. If you would bought a put option on the house, it would do the same thing, right? You would have an option to sell it at a high price, or something that's now worthless. So insurance is like options. And insurance gives you a piece of mind. And so people think in certain repetitive patterns, then one of them is that I would like to not worry about something. So I can get peace of mind by not if I have a put option on something that I might otherwise worry about. All right, maybe that's enough of an introduction. But I've given you both theoretical reasons for options and behavioral reasons. I think of them as basically inevitable. You may have people advising you not to bother with options markets. And that might be right for you, in a sense. But I think that there are always going to be with us. And so it's something that we have to understand. So let me have this paper clipping that I took. I cut it out. I've been teaching this course for over 20 years. Sometimes I don't update my newspaper clippings. I have a newspaper clipping from the Options page that I made in 2002. So that's nine years ago, but I can't update it anymore because newspapers don't print option prices anymore, so I could go on some electronic trade account and get an updated option page, but why don't we just stick with the Wall Street Journal. So this is a clipping from the Wall Street Journal, April 2002, when they used to have an options page, okay? And I just picked America Online just as, I don't know why, it's interesting. You remember America Online Web Presence? It used to be bigger than it is now. And actually in 2000, America Online merged with Time Warner, okay? And so we actually they have two different rows corresponding. Up there, what, forget A's limited. The second row says a-o-w-a-o-l.t-w. That's America Online Time Warner, the merged company. And then below that, they have America Online itself. These were options that were issued before the merger. And they apparently are being exercised in terms of the same AOL time-water stock. AOL, by the way, was spun off by time-water last year. So they had a divorce. They were married in 2000. They were divorced in 2010. So you can get back to AOL options now. So anyway, it shows the price of the share at $21.85 a share. So you can take any of these rows. And it shows you for various strike prices what the options prices are. So let's go to the top row, a strike price of 20 expiring in May of 2002, which is like one month into the future. Remember, it's April 2002 right now. The volume is the number of options that were traded yesterday. And the $2.55 up there is the price of a call option. the last price, the last option to be traded yesterday. This is the morning paper, it's reporting on yesterday morning's prices. And then there's put options trading. A lot more puts were traded on that day. There were 2,000 put options traded on that day in April, 2002. And the last price of the put option was $0.85. So you see what the, so for $0.85, you could buy the right to sell a share of AOL time water at $20. And similarly, you could buy the right to buy it at $20 for $2.55. So these are different strike prices and different exercise dates. Here's a, this one is, which one you can pick. This one, I can reach it, is to buy it, that left it's a call, $25 strike price, cost you 45 cents to buy that. But if you want to buy a put, it costs you $3.60. And we want to try to understand these prices. That's the purpose here. So let me say one thing more before I get into that. This is presented for the potential buyer. These are options prices. There's also the seller of the option, they are called the writer of the option. I gave you an example before when I talked about the farmer and you thinking of building a supermarket. So you are the buyer of the option and the farmer is the writer of the option. The farmer is writing the option to you. You could also consider buying an option from someone else who's not even the farmer, right? It could be some speculator. You don't have to go to the farmer. You could go to somebody else and say, I'd like to buy an option on that farm over there. And someone's like, sure, I'll sell you an option on it. And then I'm good for it. That means I have to go and buy it at whatever price from the farmer. Maybe it's not such a good idea. He might sense my urgency to buy it. But if it's a stock, someone can write an option who doesn't even own the stock. And so that's called a naked seller of an option, OK? Neither the buyer nor the seller ever have to trade in the stock, this is a market by itself. You could buy an option and then you could sell it before, as an option, without ever exercising it. And so the writer could write an option and then buy an option to cancel it out later and then essentially get out of that contract. So the option becomes a market of its own where prices of options start to look like an independent market. And this is called a derivatives market. Because there's an underlying stock price. But this is a derivative of the stock price. They were first traded. The first options exchange was the Chicago board options exchange, which came in in 1973. Before that, the options were traded, but they were traded through brokers, and they didn't have the same presence. You didn't see all these options prices in newspapers. It's when they opened a market for options that the options trading became a big thing. So options markets are relatively new. I mean, if you consider 73 new, you weren't born that, but it's not really that long ago. Since then, there are many more options exchanges. But the CBOE is the first one. They're now all over the world. And we also have options on futures. And so futures exchanges now routinely trade options on their futures contracts. So that's a derivative on a derivative. But it's done. OK. So let me draw a simple picture of option pricing. So this is the stock price, and this is the option price, OK? And I'm going to mark here the exercise price. Then let's look at the exercise date, the last day. the option is about to expire, and this is your last chance to buy the stock. Then it doesn't matter on that day, whether it's an American or European option, they're both the same on the last day. What is the price of the option as the function of the stock price? Well, if the stock price is less than the exercise price, the option is worthless, right? It will not be exercised. You won't exercise an option to buy it for more than you could just buy it on the market, right? Did I not say call? Yes. I'll put it up here. We're talking about call options. Thank you. But if it's above the exercise price, this is a 45 degree angle that's in line with the slope of 1. The option price rises with the stock price. In fact, it just equals the stock price minus the exercise price, right? So this region, we say, is out of the money. The option is out of the money when its price is for a call is less than the exercise price. Here, it's in the money. I'll put it up here in the money. And then, on the exercise date, it will always equal the stock price minus the exercise price. So it's very simple. Now, one confusion that's often made, I gave the example of building a shopping center or a supermarket on a farm. Now, someone might think that you buy an option on it so that you can think about it and make up your mind later. Well, in a sense, you could do that. But the thing is you will exercise the option whether or not you build the shopping mall or the supermarket if it's in the money, right? Suppose the farmer, suppose you've changed your mind and I don't want to build a supermer. But I'm sitting on an option that I bought to buy his land for a price which is less than the market price for it. Of course, I'll buy it. So you're gonna buy it whether you build the shopping center or not. You always exercise the option if it's in the money on the last day, that's an assumption. I mean, you could not, I suppose, if you like the farmer and you want to be a nice guy, I don't know. But usually it's all about, What it is is a non-linear relation between the stock price and the derivative. So the derivative is a broken straight line function of the stock price. Whereas all the portfolios we construct are linear. They're straight lines. They don't have a break in them. So the option creates a break in the stock in the... And this is why Ross emphasized that options price something very different. It's not priced in the regular. No portfolio shows you this broken straight line relation. Now, I wanted to then talk about a put. What is a put? Let me erase where it says in and out of the money. But I'll show it. I'll do this with a dashed line so that you'll see which one is. I'm leaving the call line up. With a put, a put is out of the money. Up here, if I can't really show it too well, if the stock price is above the exercise price, because you're selling now, and it's in the money, if the stock price is less than the exercise price. I didn't draw that very well, but that's supposed to be a 45 degree line. That's 45 degree angle, has a slope of minus 1. So on the exercise date. Now, it's interesting that there's a pretty simple pattern here between puts and calls. What if I buy one call and I short one put or write a put? Same thing is writing a put and shorting a put are the same thing. What does that portfolio look like? Well, if I put that portfolio together, if I'm going to have a call plus one call minus one put, all right, well, my portfolio relation to the stock price is going to look like that, right? It's just going to be a straight line. So my portfolio is equal, the value of my portfolio is equal to the stock price minus the exercise price. Simple as that. And my portfolio can be negative now, because I've shorted something. I can have a negative portfolio value. So that's very simple. You can see that. This leads us to the put call parity equation. Well, if a put minus a call is the same thing as the stock minus the exercise price, then the prices should add up too, right? So put call parity. There's different ways of writing this. But it says that the stock price equals, let me see, the stock price, price equals the call price minus put price plus exercise price on the last day, on the exercise day, right? It's simple. This is put call parity on the exercise day. Now let's think about some day before the exercise date. Well you know this is going to happen on the exercise day. So any day before the exercise date, the same thing should hold except that We've got to make this the present value, present discounted value of the exercise price. And also, we have to add in, in case there is any dividends paid between now and the exercise date plus the present discounted value of dividends paid between now and the exercise date. Because the stock gets that and the option holders don't. So that's called the put call parity relation. And now I can cross our exercise date. This should hold on all dates. Because if it didn't hold, there would be an arbitrage, a profit opportunity. So it should hold on this page, except for minor failures to hold, it should hold approximately on this page. So let me give you one example. see if it holds. This is the one that I can reach. The strike price, OK, this is the stock price. So what do I have? The biggest thing here is the strike price, exercise price. So we want to do $25, or do this line, $25, plus $0.45 minus $3.60. And I'm assuming there's no dividend paid between now and May. Comes out very close to $2,185. I can't do the arithmetic in my head. I may not hold exactly because these prices may now all have been quoted at exactly the same time. And there's some transactions costs that limit this. Do you see that now? So because of put-called parity of relation, the Wall Street Journal didn't even We need to bother to put the put prices in, because you can get one from the other. But they do put them in just because people like to see them, and some people might be trying to profit from the put-call parity arbitrage. But for our purposes, we only have to do call pricing. Once we've got call pricing, we've got put prices, because I just used the put-call parity relation and I get put prices. So now let's think about how you would price puts. The price of a put is, we know what it is on the exercise date, right? I'm going to forget the dash lines. There's no dash lines here anymore. We're just talking about call prices. All right, so this shows the price of a put on the last day of a call on the last day. Now, what about an earlier day? Well, the price of a call can never be negative, right? So the call price has to be above this line. It can never be worth less than the stock price minus the exercise price even before the date. And also, it can't be worth more than the stock price itself. I'll draw a 45 degree line from the origin. So it's kind of obvious that the, that's supposed to be parallel to that. It's obvious that the call price has to be above this broken straight line, but not too far above it. Above this broken straight line representing the price as a function of the stock price on the last day. And the closer you get to the last day, The closer the options price will get to that curve. So on some day before the exercise date, the option price, the call option price will probably look something like that. It's above the broken straight line because of option value. So think of it this way, suppose an option is out of the money today. Well, we can see it out of the money options. This is an out of, for a call, this is out of the money, right? Because the stock price is $21.85. But I've got an option to buy it for $25. All right, that's going to be worthless unless the option price goes up before it expires. So it's only worth something because there's a chance that it will be worth something on the exercise date. And what are people paying for that chance? 45 cents, not much. Why are they paying so little, what you could say intuitively? It's because it's pretty far, $21.85 is pretty far from $25. And this option only has a month to go. What's the chances that the price will go up that much? Well, there is a chance, but it's not that big. So I'm only willing to pay $0.45 to buy an option like that. So we're somewhere like here on that row that I've showed you. But the reason you don't want to exercise an option early is because if you exercise it early, your value drops down to the broken straight line. It's always worth more than the broken straight line indicates before the exercise date. So if you want to get your money out, sell the option. Don't exercise it early. So that's why the distinction between European and American options is not as big or as important as you might think at first. So we can just price European options, and then we can infer what other options would be, what put options would be worth. So let's now talk about pricing of options. pricing of options. The main pricing equation that we're going to use is the black sholes option pricing equation. But before that I wanted to just give you a simple story of option pricing, just to give you some idea how it works. And then I'm going to not actually derive the black sholes formula, but I'm going to show it to you, but the simple, and I tell you a simple story just to give you some intuitive feel about pricing of options. And to simplify the story, I'm going to tell a story about a world in which there's only two possible prices for the underlying stock. That makes it binomial. There's only two things that can happen. And it can either be high or low, all right? So let me get my notation. I'm going to use s as the stock price. And then I'm going to assume that the stock price, that's today's, that's today. And this is also a simple world and that there's only one day the option expires tomorrow. There's only one more price we're going to see. So the stock is either going to go up or down. So u is equal to one plus the fraction up. that it goes up, U stands for up. And D is down, is 1 plus the fraction down. So that means that stock price either becomes SU, which means it goes up by a fraction, multiple U, or is SD, which means it goes down by a multiple D. And that's all we know. Now, we have a call option called C, the price of the call. We're going to try to derive what that is. But we know from our broken straight line analysis, we know what C U is, the price if the stock goes up, and we know what C D is, is the price if down. So suppose the option has exercise price E. All right, now understand this world's simple story. Now what I want to do is consider a portfolio of both the stock and the option that is riskless. And I'm going to buy a number of options equal to H. H is the hedge ratio, which is the number of shares sold of shares purchased, so I'm going to sell a call option to hedge the stock price, to reduce the risk of the stock price. And so hedge ratio is shares sold, shares purchased over options. Each option is to buy one share, OK? So what I'm going to do is write one call and buy each shares. So let me erase this and start over again. I'm on my way to deriving the option price for you. And it's a little bit of math, but we'll get OK. So I'm going to write one call and buy H shares. If the stock goes up, if we discover we're in an up world next period, my portfolio is worth UHS minus C sub U. Because the share price goes from S to US. And I've got h-sairs. And I've written a call, so I have to pay c sub u. If it's down, then my portfolio is d h s minus c sub d. This is simple enough. Now, what I want to do is eliminate all risk. So that means I want to choose h so that these two numbers are the same. And if I do that, I've got a riskless investment, all right? So I'll set these equal to each other. And that applies something about h. We can derive what h is. If I just put these two equal to each other and solve for h. And I get h equals c sub u minus c sub d all over u minus d s. So I've been able to put together a portfolio of the stock and the option that has zero risk. It's going to, if I do this, if I hold this amount of shares in my portfolio, I've got to risk this portfolio. So that means that the riskless portfolio has to earn the riskless rate, right? It is the same thing as a riskless rate. So it has to earn that. If I can erase this now, I'm almost there to option pricing. The option pricing then says that since I've derived what h is, the portfolio has to be worth 1 plus the interest rate times what I put in, which is hs minus c. And that has to equal the value of the portfolio at the end, which is either u, h, s minus c sub u, or d, h, s minus c sub d, the same thing, OK? So I've already derived what h is. And I substitute it into that, and I solve for c. So substitute h in and solve for c. And we get the call price, OK? And it's kind of a little bit complicated, but I'll write it. The call option price has to equal 1 plus r minus d all over u minus d times c sub u over 1 plus r plus u minus 1 minus r all over u minus d times c sub d all over 1 plus r are, and I'll put a box around that, because that's our option price formula, okay? Did you follow all that? This is derived, this option price formula was derived from a no arbitrage condition. Arbitrage in finance means riskless profit opportunity. And the no arbitrage condition says it's never possible to make more than the riskless rate risklessly all right if I could suppose I had some way suppose the riskless rate is 5% and I can make 6% risklessly then I will borrow at the riskless rate and put it into the 6% opportunity and I'll do that till Kingdom come up there's no limit to how much I'll do that I'll do it forever and it So it can't, it's too much of a profit opportunity to ever happen. So one of the most powerful insights of theoretical finance is that the no arbitrage condition should hold. It's like saying, there are no $10 bills on the pavement. When you walk down the street and you see a $10 bill lying there on the street, your first thought ought to be, are my eyes deceiving me? because somebody else would have picked it up if it were there, how can it be there? I once actually had that experience. I was walking down the street in New York, and I saw it was actually a $5 bill. It was just lying there on the street. And so I reached down to pick it up and then suddenly it disappeared. And it was people on one of the stupes of one of these New York townhouses playing a game where they had tied a string to a $5 bill. And they would leave it on the street and watch people reach for it, and they'd snatch it away. That's the only time in my life I ever saw a $5 bill on the pavement. And so it's not like a pretty good assumption that if you see one, it isn't real. And that's all this is saying that if the option price didn't follow this formula, something would be wrong. And so it had better follow this formula. Now that is the basic core option theory. Now the interesting thing about this theory is I didn't use the probability of up and the probability of down, so somebody said, wait a minute, my whole intuition about options is I buy an option because it might be in the money and when I was just describing here, this is 45 cents, I said, that's not much because it probably won't, it probably won't exceed $25, it's so far below it. So it seems like the options should really be fundamentally tied to the probability of success. But it's not here at all. There's no probability. You saw me derive it. Was I tricking you? Well, I wasn't. I mean, I tell you, I don't play tricks. This is absolutely right. You don't need the know of the probability that it's in the money to price an option. And because you can price it out of pure, no arbitrage condition. So that leads me then to the famous formula for options pricing, the Black Shoals option pricing formula. Which looks completely different from that, but it's a kindred because it relies on the same theory. And there it is. This was derived in the late 70s, or maybe early 70s, by Fisher Black, who was at MIT at the time, I think, but later went to Goldman Sachs. And Myron Scholes, who is now in San Francisco doing very well. I see him at our Chicago Mercantile Exchange meetings. Fisher Black passed away. So it doesn't have the probability that the option is in the money either. But it looks a little different. It looks totally different from the formula that I wrote over there. The call price is equal to the share price s times n of d1, where d1 is this equation, minus e to the minus r, the interest rate times time to maturity, t times the exercise price times n of d2, where this is d2. And the n function is the cumulative normal distribution function. I'm not going to derive all that because it involves what's called the calculus of variations. I don't think most of you have learned that. In ordinary calculus, we have what's called differentials, dy, dx, et cetera. Those are fixed numbers in ordinary calculus. In the mid-20th century mathematicians, notably the Japanese mathematician Ito, developed a random version of calculus, where dx and dy are random variables. That's called the stochastic calculus. But I'm not going to use that, not going to derive this. But you can see how to price an option using black sholes. But black sholes is derived, again, by the no arbitrage condition. And it doesn't have the probability. Oh, the other variable that's significant here sigma, which is the standard deviation of the change in the stock price. So once we put that in, someone could say, well, but probabilities are getting in through the back door because this is really a probability weighted sum of the changes in stock prices. Well, probabilities were not really in here at all, but maybe there's something like standard deviation even in this equation, because we had C U and C D, and that gives you some sense of the variability. But I'm going to leave this equation just for you to look at, but what it does do is it shows the stock option price as a nice curve linear relationship, just like the one I drew by hand, which then as time to exercise goes down, as we get close to the exercise date, that curve eventually coincides with the broken straight line. So now I wanted to tell you about implied volatility. This equation can be used either of two ways. The most normal way to do it, to use this equation, is to get the price that you think is the right price for an option, to decide whether I'm paying too much or too little for an option. So with this formula, I can plug in all the numbers. To use this formula, I have to know what the stock price is. I have to know what the exercise price is, and I have to know what the time to maturity, these are all specified by the stock price and the contract, I have to know what the interest rate is, and if I also have some idea of the standard deviation of the change in the stock price, then I can get an option price. But I can also turn it around if I already know what the option is selling for in the market And I can infer what the implied sigma is, right? Because all the other numbers in the black sholes formula are clear, they're in the newspaper or they're in the option contract. There's this one hard to pin down variable. What is the variability of the stock price? And so what people often use the black sholes formula to is to invert it and calculate the implied volatility of stock prices. So when call option prices are high, why are they high relative to other times? Well, it must be that people think I'm going back to the old interpretation that the probability of exercise is high. If an out-of-the-money call is valuable, it must be people think that sigma is high. So let's actually solve for how high that is. I can't actually solve this equation. I have to do it numerically. But I can calculate, for any call price, given the stock price, exercise price, time to maturity, and interest rate, I can calculate what volatility would imply that stock price. And so that's where we are with the actuals. So implied volatility is the options market's opinion as to how variable the stock market will be between now and the exercise date. So one thing we can do is compute implied volatility. And I have that here on this chart here. What I have here from 1986 to the present with the blue line is the VIX, VIX, which is computed now by the Chicago Board Options Exchange. When the CBOE was founded, they didn't know how to do this. Black and Shoals invented their equation in response to the founding of the CBOE. And now the CBOE publishes the VIX. And you get on their website. That's where I got this off their website, CBOE.com, and so they have computed, based on the front month option, the near option. What the market thought the volatility, what the options market thought the volatility of the stock market was. That's the blue line, and you can see it had a lot of changes through time. So that means that options prices were revealing something about the volatility of the stock market. Now, the blue line is from the Chicago Board Options Exchange. What I did, and I calculated this myself, is the orange line, is the standard deviation of actual stock prices over the preceding year of monthly changes annualized. That's actual volatility. But it's actual past volatility. Let's make it clear what this is. So what the VIX is is the sigma in the black sholes equation. But it is the, in effect, the markets expected standard deviation of stock prices. And to get it more precise, it's the standard deviation of the S&P 500 stock price index for one month, multiplied by the square root of 12, because they want to annualize it. It's for the next month, so why are they modified by the square root of 12? Well, that's because remember the square root rule. These Asak prices are essentially independent of each other month to month. So the standard deviation of the sum of 12 months is going to be a square root of 12 times the standard deviation of one month. So, and this is in percent per year. So, that means that the implied volatility in 1986 was 20 percent. And then it shot way up to 60 percent, unimaginably. In fact, that might be the record high. I can't quite tell from here. I remember I told you the story of the 1987 stock market crash. Stock market fell over 22 percent in one day. Well, actually, on the S&P it was only 20 percent, but a lot in one day. It really spooked the options markets. So the call option prices went way up, thinking that there's some big volatility here. We don't know which way it'll be next. Maybe it'll be up, maybe it'll be down. It pushed the implied volatility temporarily up to a huge level. It came right back down. My actual volatility, now this is, I calculated this for each date as the volatility of the market over the preceding year. Well, since I put October 1987 in my formula, I got to jump up in actual volatility. But not as all as big as the options market did. So the option market is looking ahead. And I have no way to look ahead. I look at the options market. So to get my actual volatility, I was obliged to look at volatility in the past. in the past, and it went out because of the 1987 volatility, but not so much. So what this means is that in 1987, people really panicked. They thought something is really going on in the stock market. They didn't know what it was, and they were really worried. And that's why we see this spike in implied volatility. There's a couple other spikes that I've noted. the Asian financial crisis occurred in the mid-1990s. Now, that is something that was primarily Asian, but it got people anxious over here as well. It was, you know, Korea, Taiwan, Indonesia, Hong Kong, these countries had a huge turmoil. But it came over here in the form of a sudden spike in expected volatility. People thought things could really happen here. So all the option prices got more valuable. And then there's this spike. This is the one that you remember. This is the financial crisis that occurred in the last few years. Notably, it peaks in the fall of 2008, which was the real crisis when Lehman Brothers collapsed. And it created a crisis all over the world. There was a sharp and sudden, terrible event. And you can see that actual volatility shot up to the highest since 1986, as well, at that time. So implied volatility, you can't ask easily from this chart whether it was right or wrong. People were responding to information and the response felt its way into options prices. Well, actually, there's no way to find out X-Post whether they were right to be worried about that. But they were worried about these events. And it led to big jumps in options prices. Now, I wanted to show the same chart going back even further. But I can't do it with options prices because I can show volatility earlier. But I can't show implied volatility before around 1986, because the options markets weren't developed yet. But I computed an actual S&P composite volatility. Well, in my chart title, I said S&P 500. The Standard and Poor 500 stock price index technically starts in 1957. But I've got what they call the Standard and Poor composite back to 1871. on. And so these are the actual moving standard deviations of stock prices all the way back to the beginnings of the stock market in the U.S., but not the very beginnings, but the earliest that we can get consistent data on a monthly basis. And you can see, this goes back further than the other chart. You can see that the actual volatility of stock prices has been, except for one big event, called the Great Depression of the 1930s, has been remarkably stable. The volatility in the late 20th century, early 21st century, is just about exactly the same as the volatility in the 19th century. interesting how stable these patterns are. There was this one really anomalous event. And it just sticks out. And that is the great depression. 1929 precedes it. It's somewhere in here. But somehow people got really rattled by the 1929 stock market crash. And not just in the US, this is US data, but you'll find this all over the world. It led to a full decade of tremendous stock market volatility around the world that has never been repeated since. The recent financial crisis has the second highest volatility after the Great Depression. This isn't long ago. This is well within your memories. And just a few years ago, we had another huge impact on volatility. And as you saw on the preceding slide, it had a big impact on implied volatility as well. So I think that we had a near miss of another depression. It's really scary what happened in this crisis. I have also shown here is the first oil crisis, which we talked about in 1974, when oil prices had been locked into a pattern because of the stabilization done by the Texas Railroad Commission, but when that broke, when OPEC first flexed its muscles, it created a sense of new reality and it caused fear and it caused a big spike up in volatility of the stock market. But not quite as big as the current financial crisis. So I think this is an interesting chart to me because it shows that financial markets, but a lot of things that I learned from this chart, and that maybe I'll just conclude with some thoughts about this, but what I learned from this chart is that somehow financial markets are very stable for a long time. So it would seem like it wouldn't be that much of an extrapolation. When are you people going to retire? You've picked a retirement date yet? Well, let's say a half century from now, okay? So that beats 2060, something like that. So you're going to retire out here, all right? Your whole life is in here. What do you think volatility is going to do over that whole period? Well, just judging from the plot, it's probably pretty similar, right? I mean, that's not much more history compared to what we've already seen. Probably just going to keep doing this, but there's this risk of something like this happening again, and we saw a near miss here, but we didn't. I think this plot encourages me to think that maybe outliers or fat tales or black swan events are the big disruptor to economic theory. Black sholes is not a black swan theory. It assumes normality of distributions. And so it's not always reliable. So this leads me to think that option pricing theory, presented a theory, the black sholes theory is very elegant and a very useful tool, especially useful when things behave normally. But I think one always has to keep in the back of one mind the risk of sudden major changes like we've seen here. So let me just give some final thoughts about option. I launched this lecture by saying they're very important. And they affect our lives in many ways. I've been trying to campaign for the expansion of our financial markets. I'm working with my colleagues and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. We launched options in 2006 on single-family homes in the United States. We were hoping that people would buy put options to protect themselves against home price declines. But the market never took off. We have since seen huge human suffering because of the failure of people to protect themselves against home price declines. There are various noises that were made by people in power that suggested that maybe something could be done. President Obama proposed something called Home Price Protection Program. And it sounded like an option, a put option program, but actually it was a much more subtle program than that. It was a program to incentivize mortgage originators to do workouts on mortgages if the mortgages would default. If home prices were to fall, and nothing really happened with it. The president can't get things started either, always. I've been proposing that mortgages should have put options on the house attached to them. When you buy a house, get a mortgage, you should automatically get a put option. I've got a new paper on that. But these are kind of futuristic things at the moment. But my sense, I'm just saying this at the end just to try to impress on you what I think is the real importance of options markets. People don't manage risks well in the present world. Having options or insurance-like contracts of an expanded nature will help people manage their risks better and it will make for a better world. OK, I'll see you on Monday.
