Timestamp: 2025-08-18T08:35:17.692331
Title: 为什么说中国当前的国家治理模式，就是一种十足的盗贼统治？中国文化为什么是原始和愚昧的？ | 枪炮病菌与钢铁15 | 解毒中国文化135 | Reaction Book Reading
URL: https://youtube.com/watch?v=wkdst4hVgko&si=Vb1Bzf5uipoVHbwu
Status: success
Duration: 1:12:42

Description:
| <TEXT> Why is it said that China's current model of governance is a complete kleptocracy? Why do we often see the shadow of primitiveness and ignorance in Chinese culture when we examine various primitive tribes throughout history? Today we continue reading the book Guns, Germs, and Steel. The answers to the above questions are in today's chapter. Today we are reading Chapter 14: From Egalitarianism to Kleptocracy. To hear more, please subscribe to my YouTube channel. After finishing this book, I will share more related books on the topic of detoxifying Chinese culture. Let's work together to eliminate the Chinese cultural virus in our minds and achieve a cultural exodus at the individual spiritual level to quickly leap into a state of modern civilization. Let's begin. Chapter 14: From Egalitarianism to Kleptocracy In 1979, several missionary friends and I were flying over a remote swamp basin in New Guinea. I noticed a few simple huts scattered far and wide on the ground. The pilot told me that in this muddy land, a group of Indonesian crocodile hunters had recently encountered New Guinean nomads. Both sides were shocked, and the Indonesians eventually shot and killed several. My missionary friends speculated that these nomads belonged to an uncontacted group called the Fayu, known to the outside world only through the accounts of their frightened neighbors, the Kirikiri. The Kirikiri were once nomads who had been evangelized and converted. The potential for danger always exists when outsiders first come into contact with parts of New Guinea, and this inauspicious start was particularly worrying. Despite this, my friend Doug took a helicopter out to try to establish friendly relations with the Fayu. He came back alive, but with lingering fears, to tell a remarkable story. The Fayu usually live alone, scattered across swamps, and gather once or twice a year to discuss bride exchanges. Doug's visit coincided with a gathering of several dozen Fayu. To us, a few dozen people would be just an ordinary gathering, but to the Fayu, it was a rare and terrifying incident. The murderer and the deceased's relatives, suddenly narrow. For example, a Fayu man recognized the man who had killed his father. He raised his axe and rushed towards the murderer, but was knocked to the ground by his friends. The murderer also picked up an axe and walked towards the fallen man, but was also knocked to the ground. The two were held tightly and roared until they were exhausted. Others cursed at each other from time to time, shaking with anger and frustration, and hitting the ground with axes. The atmosphere at the gathering had been so tense for several days that Doug kept praying that this trip would not end in violence. The Fayu people are about 400 people, divided into four ethnic groups, living a nomadic life of hunter-gatherers across hundreds of square miles. According to their own accounts, they originally numbered about 2, 000, but their population was drastically reduced due to internecine slaughter. They do not have the political and social institutions we are accustomed to using to peacefully resolve serious disputes. Finally, as a result of Doug's visit, a Fayu group invited a brave missionary couple to live with them. The couple had lived there for more than ten years and gradually persuaded the Fayu to give up violence. The Fayu were thus brought into the modern world and faced an unpredictable future. Many previously uncontacted Indian groups of New Guinea and Amazonia were similarly

Content:
Why is it said that China's current model of governance is a complete kleptocracy? Why do we often see the shadow of primitiveness and ignorance in Chinese culture when we examine various primitive tribes throughout history? Today we continue reading the book Guns, Germs, and Steel. The answers to the above questions are in today's chapter. Today we are reading Chapter 14: From Egalitarianism to Kleptocracy. To hear more, please subscribe to my YouTube channel. After finishing this book, I will share more related books on the topic of detoxifying Chinese culture. Let's work together to eliminate the Chinese cultural virus in our minds and achieve a cultural exodus at the individual spiritual level to quickly leap into a state of modern civilization. Let's begin. Chapter 14: From Egalitarianism to Kleptocracy In 1979, several missionary friends and I were flying over a remote swamp basin in New Guinea. I noticed a few simple huts scattered far and wide on the ground. The pilot told me that in this muddy land, a group of Indonesian crocodile hunters had recently encountered New Guinean nomads. Both sides were shocked, and the Indonesians eventually shot and killed several. My missionary friends speculated that these nomads belonged to an uncontacted group called the Fayu, known to the outside world only through the accounts of their frightened neighbors, the Kirikiri. The Kirikiri were once nomads who had been evangelized and converted. The potential for danger always exists when outsiders first come into contact with parts of New Guinea, and this inauspicious start was particularly worrying. Despite this, my friend Doug took a helicopter out to try to establish friendly relations with the Fayu. He came back alive, but with lingering fears, to tell a remarkable story. The Fayu usually live alone, scattered across swamps, and gather once or twice a year to discuss bride exchanges. Doug's visit coincided with a gathering of several dozen Fayu. To us, a few dozen people would be just an ordinary gathering, but to the Fayu, it was a rare and terrifying incident. The murderer and the deceased's relatives, suddenly narrow. For example, a Fayu man recognized the man who had killed his father. He raised his axe and rushed towards the murderer, but was knocked to the ground by his friends. The murderer also picked up an axe and walked towards the fallen man, but was also knocked to the ground. The two were held tightly and roared until they were exhausted. Others cursed at each other from time to time, shaking with anger and frustration, and hitting the ground with axes. The atmosphere at the gathering had been so tense for several days that Doug kept praying that this trip would not end in violence. The Fayu people are about 400 people, divided into four ethnic groups, living a nomadic life of hunter-gatherers across hundreds of square miles. According to their own accounts, they originally numbered about 2, 000, but their population was drastically reduced due to internecine slaughter. They do not have the political and social institutions we are accustomed to using to peacefully resolve serious disputes. Finally, as a result of Doug's visit, a Fayu group invited a brave missionary couple to live with them. The couple had lived there for more than ten years and gradually persuaded the Fayu to give up violence. The Fayu were thus brought into the modern world and faced an unpredictable future. Many previously uncontacted Indian groups of New Guinea and Amazonia were similarly assimilated into modern society by missionaries. The missionaries were followed by teachers, doctors, government officials, and soldiers. The expansion of government and religion has been linked throughout recorded history, whether by peaceful or violent means. In the latter case, conquests were usually organized by governments and then justified by religion. Although nomads and tribal peoples have occasionally defeated organized governments and religions, the general trend over the past 13, 000 years has been toward their ultimate defeat. At the end of the last ice age, most of the world's population lived in societies similar to those of the Fayu today, and no one lived in more complex societies. Until 1500 AD, less than 20% of the world's land was divided into states governed by officials and laws. Today, all land except Antarctica is divided into states. Some societies were the first to achieve centralized governments and organized religions, and their descendants ultimately came to dominate the modern world. The combination of government and religion is one of four primary direct forces that have produced the most widespread patterns in history, along with germs, writing, and technology. So, how did government and religion arise? The Fayou and the modern state represent two extremes of human society. Modern American society differs from Fayou society in that the former has specialized police forces, institutions, cities, money, wealth disparity, and a host of other political, economic, and social institutions. Did all these institutions arise simultaneously, or in a sequence? We can infer the answer by studying written records or archaeological evidence from past societies and observing the historical changes in individual social institutions. Cultural anthropologists, attempting to characterize the diversity of human societies, often divide them into six or seven types. However, any attempt to define stages within an evolutionary or developmental continuum is inherently flawed, whether it's musical styles, stages of human life, or human societies. First, each stage stems from the previous one, and the boundaries between stages are inevitably arbitrary. For example, is a 19-year-old an adolescent or a young adult? Secondly, the order of development is not fixed, so examples grouped together in the same period are bound to be quite diverse. Brahms and Liszt, for example, would be uneasy in their graves to know that they are now both grouped together as Romantic composers. However, if one keeps these caveats in mind, arbitrary periods offer a useful and convenient way to discuss the diversity of both music and human societies. In this spirit, we will use a simple classification based on four categories: ethnic group, tribe, chiefdom, and state. The ethnic group is the smallest social unit, usually consisting of 5 to 80 people, most or all of whom are closely related by blood or marriage. In fact, an ethnic group is an extended family or several extended families related by kin. Today, ethnic groups that still live independently are found almost exclusively in the most remote areas of New Guinea and the Amazon basin, but in modern times, many other ethnic groups have been controlled, assimilated, or eliminated by the state. They include many or Most African pygmies, the San hunter-gatherers of southern Africa, the Aborigines of Australia, the Eskimos, and the Native Americans of some resource-poor areas of the Americas. All of these modern groups are and have been nomadic hunter-gatherers rather than settled food producers. Until at least 40, 000 years ago, probably all lived in groups, and most did so as late as 11, 000 years ago. Groups lack many of the institutions we take for granted in our own societies. They are nomadic. Group territory is shared by the entire group rather than divided among small groups or individuals. There is no fixed economic specialization within a group except by age and sex: able-bodied people forage for their own food. There are no formal institutions, such as laws, police, and treaties, to resolve conflicts within and between groups. Group organization is often described as "egalitarian": there is no formal social hierarchy with upper and lower classes. There is no formal or hereditary leadership, nor is there a formal monopoly on information and decision-making. However, "egalitarian" should not be understood to mean that all tribes have equal prestige and decision-making power. The word only means that any "leadership" within the tribe is informal, acquired through qualities such as personality, strength, wisdom, and fighting skills. My personal experience of tribes comes from the "lake plains" region of New Guinea, a swampy lowland area inhabited by the Fayu people. There, I still encounter large families consisting of several adults with their dependent children and elderly people. They live in simple, makeshift huts along the streams and travel by canoe and on foot. Today, most other peoples of New Guinea, and almost all other peoples in the world, live in large-scale settlements. Why do people of the lake plains still live in nomadic tribes? The explanation for this is that the region lacked the resources to support large numbers of people, and before the missionaries introduced crops, there were no native plants that could support productive agriculture. The main source of food for the tribes was the sago palm, which produces a starchy pith in the center of its fruit when it matures. These tribes wandered because after the mature sago palms in an area were cut down, they had to move elsewhere. Due to disease, especially malaria, the lack of raw materials in the swamps, and the need to exchange even stone tools, and the limited amount of food that the swamps could provide for humans, the number of tribes remained small. The resources available to humans with current technology were limited, and areas recently occupied by other tribes are still common. The animals closest to humans are gorillas, chimpanzees, and Bonobos, found south of the Congo River, also live in groups, as did all humans probably until improved foraging techniques allowed some hunter-gatherer groups to settle permanently in resource-rich areas. This group is the political, economic, and social organization we inherit from millions of years of evolution. The first stage beyond the group occurred in the last tens of thousands of years: the tribe. The difference between a tribe and a group is that it is larger, usually hundreds of people rather than dozens, and usually has a fixed settlement. However, some tribes, even some ruled by chiefs, are composed of seasonal nomads. The inhabitants of the New Guinea Highlands are typical tribal organizations. Before the arrival of colonial government, their political unit was the village. A "tribe" is a group of villages or a tightly knit group of villages. Thus, this political definition of "tribe" is usually much smaller than the one defined by linguists and cultural anthropologists as a group with a common language and culture. For example, in 1964 I began working with a group of highland people called the Fore. By linguistic and cultural standards, the Fore then numbered 12, 000 people, speaking two mutually intelligible dialects and living in 65 villages of a few hundred people each. Yet some Fore villages lack any political unity, and each hamlet is embroiled in a dizzying array of wars and alliances with all its neighbors, whether they are Fore themselves or people who speak a different language, recently independent and now part of a nation-state. Tribal groups still occupy large parts of New Guinea, Melanesia, and the Amazon basin. We infer the existence of similar tribal organizations in the past from archaeological evidence for settlements. There are many such settlements, but they lack the archaeological hallmarks of chiefdoms, as I will explain below. Archaeological evidence for settlements suggests that tribal organization began to appear in the Fertile Crescent about 13, 000 years ago and later in other areas. A prerequisite for settled life is a food-producing or productive environment with exceptionally concentrated resources for hunting and gathering over a small area. This is when climate change, combined with technological improvements, allowed people to harvest large quantities of wild cereals. Settlements, and by extension, tribes, emerged in the Fertile Crescent. The reason for the surge in numbers is that tribes differ from ethnic groups in that they have fixed residences and larger populations. In addition, tribes are composed of more than one officially recognized kinship group. These clans intermarry with each other, and land belongs to a clan, not to the entire tribe. However, the number of tribes is still small. Everyone knows the name of everyone else and their various kinship relationships. The same is true for other types of human groups. If a group wants to know each other well, the maximum number of people seems to be "a few hundred". For example, in our country, if a school has only a few hundred elementary school students, the principal may be able to call out the names of all the students; but if the school has thousands of elementary school students, he will not be able to do so. In a society with more than a few hundred people, human politics One reason for this is that resolving conflicts between strangers is inherently difficult, and this difficulty becomes increasingly acute as the group grows. The fact that every member of a tribe is related to every other member by blood, marriage, or both helps to defuse potential problems. The kinship ties that bind all members of the tribe make police, laws, and other conflict-resolution institutions common to larger societies unnecessary, because any two villages at odds have many relatives in common who can exert pressure on both sides to prevent the dispute from escalating into violent conflict. In traditional New Guinea society, for example, If a New Guinean person happens to come into conflict with another New Guinean person who is not familiar with the person, and both of them are far away from their respective villages, they will talk about their relatives for a long time, trying to establish some kind of relationship, so as to find some reason so that neither of them will have the idea of killing each other. Let me add here that the Chinese like to build relationships and seek connections. The fundamental reason is the same. If two cars collide or conflict on the street, the first reaction of the people on both sides is to call to find connections. This subconscious thinking is very tribal cultural level. Good. Let's go back to the book. Despite these differences between ethnic groups and tribes, they still have many similarities. Tribes still have an informal, "egalitarian" government system. Information and decision-making are open. I have visited some villages in the New Guinea highlands. All the adults in the village were present at the meeting. They sat on the floor and took turns speaking, with no apparent "chairman" of the discussion. Many villages in the plateau region did have a "big man, " the most influential person in the village. However, this position was not a formal one and had limited authority. The big man had no independent decision-making power and knew nothing about diplomatic secrets. He could do nothing but try to influence public decisions. Big men earned this status through their own virtue; their status could not be inherited. Tribes, like ethnic groups, had an egalitarian social system. There were no hierarchical families or classes. Not only was status not hereditary, but no member of a traditional tribe or ethnic group could become too wealthy through their own efforts, because everyone was a member of a certain social order. They have obligations and responsibilities to many other people. Therefore, it is difficult for an outsider to guess who is the big man among all the adults in the village from their appearance, because he lives in the same simple hut as everyone else, wears the same clothes and wears the same ornaments or is naked like everyone else. Like the tribe, there is no administrative system, police department or tax bureau. Their economy is based on equal exchanges between individuals or families, rather than on the redistribution of tribute to a central authority. The degree of economic specialization is negligible: there are no full-time artisans. Every able-bodied adult, including the big men, participates in the cultivation, gathering and hunting of food. I remember once walking through a garden in the Solomon Islands and seeing a man digging in the distance waving to me. I was surprised to find that it was a friend of mine named Faldo, the most famous woodcarver in the Solomon Islands. He was a highly original artist, but this did not exempt him from growing the sweet potatoes himself. Since the tribe was so short of economic experts, it was also short of slaves, because there were no specialized menial jobs suitable for slaves. Just as with classical composers, from Bach to Schubert and throughout the entire genre from Baroque to Romantic composers, tribes evolved from one extreme of ethnicity to the other. Chiefdoms, especially tribes, had a role in distributing pork for feasts, which foreshadowed the role of chiefs in collecting and redistributing tributes of food and goods within their jurisdictions. Similarly, the presence or absence of public buildings was probably one of the differences between chiefdoms and tribes. However, some large villages in New Guinea often had houses for holding worship ceremonies. Such houses are famous for the drum houses on the Sipic River, which are the predecessors of chiefdom temples. Although in the country Some ethnic groups and tribes still survive today in remote, ecologically inhospitable areas outside the control of states, but fully independent chiefdoms had disappeared by the early 20th century because they often occupied the best land, which was coveted by the state. However, as of 1492 AD, chiefdoms were still common across a large part of the eastern United States, the resource-rich areas of South and Central America and sub-Saharan Africa that had not yet been incorporated into princely states, and all of Polynesia. The archaeological evidence discussed below shows that chiefdoms appeared in the Fertile Crescent no later than around 5500 BC and in Central America and the Andes no later than around 1000 BC. Let us consider the distinctive features of chiefdoms that distinguish them from modern European and American states, as well as from ethnic groups and simple tribal societies. In terms of population size, chiefdoms were much more populous than tribes. Such large populations, ranging from a few thousand to tens of thousands, created a serious potential for internal conflict. For any person living in a chiefdom was not closely related to the vast majority of others by blood or marriage, nor could he pronounce their names. With the emergence of chiefdoms about 7, 500 years ago, people for the first time in history had to learn how to deal with strangers regularly without killing them. Part of the solution was to give one individual, the chief, the exclusive right to use force. Unlike tribal leaders, chiefs held a recognized position and a hereditary right to it. Unlike the decentralized anarchy of village meetings, the chief was the permanent center of power. He made all major decisions and had a monopoly on important information, such as what threats individual chiefs of neighboring chiefdoms posed or what gains the gods might have promised. Unlike dignitaries, chiefs have distinctive markings that can be identified from a distance. For example, the chief on Rennell Island in the southwest Pacific has a large fan stuck behind his back. When civilians meet a chief, they must show respect according to the rules. For example, in Hawaii, they need to prostrate themselves. The chief's orders can be conveyed through one or two levels of officials. Many of these officials are low-level chiefs themselves. However, unlike national officials, officials in the chief's jurisdiction have multiple positions and no special division of labor. In Hawaii in the Polynesian Islands, these officials collect tribute and manage irrigation and organize corvée work for the chief, while the state society has tax collectors, water conservancy area managers and conscription offices. The large population in a small area within the chief's jurisdiction requires a large amount of food. In most cases, this food is obtained through grain production, while in some areas with particularly rich resources, it is obtained through hunting and gathering. For example, the Indians on the northwest coast of the Pacific Ocean in America, such as The Kwakiutl, Nootka, and Tlingit Indians lived in villages without agriculture or livestock under the leadership of chiefs, because the rivers and oceans there were rich in salmon and halibut. The surplus food produced by some people who were demoted to civilians was used to feed the chiefs, their families, officials, and specialized workers who made canoes and adzes, worked as bird catchers, and tattoo artists. Luxury goods included specialized handicrafts or rare items exchanged with distant countries, all of which belonged to the chiefs. For example, some Hawaiian chiefs had feather cloaks, some of which were woven from tens of thousands of feathers over many generations, and were of course made by civilian cloak weavers. This concentration of luxury goods made it possible to identify the identity of the chiefs in archaeological evidence, because some tombs contained much richer burial objects than others, which was common in human history. Some ancient complex chiefdoms can also be distinguished from tribal villages based on the remains of elaborate public buildings and the hierarchy of settlements within the area. One of the supreme chief's residences is obviously larger than the others, and it contains more office rooms and artifacts than other settlements. Like tribes, a chiefdom is composed of multiple hereditary families living in one residence. However, the families in tribal villages are clans of equal status, while all members of the chief's family in a chiefdom enjoy hereditary privileges. In fact, this society is divided into hereditary chiefs and the common people. The Hawaiian chiefs themselves are divided into eight strictly hierarchical families, and each family can only marry within the family. In addition, since chiefs need not only specialized craftsmen but also servants to do rough work, another difference between a chiefdom and a tribe is that the former has many The most notable economic feature of the chiefdoms was that they had begun to move away from the exclusive reliance on reciprocal exchange, which was unique to ethnic groups and tribes. In a reciprocal exchange, A gave B a gift with the expectation that B would return a gift of similar value at some unspecified time in the future. We modern citizens only do this on birthdays and holidays, but most of our goods are sold for money according to the law of supply and demand. While continuing to practice reciprocal exchange without markets or currency, the chiefdoms developed a new system called the "redistributive economy. " A simple example is that the chief received wheat from every farmer in his jurisdiction at harvest time and either treated everyone to a feast of bread or stored the wheat to be gradually distributed to everyone before the next harvest. If most of the goods received from the commoners were not redistributed to them but retained for consumption by the chief's family and artisans, this redistribution became tribute, the forerunner of taxation that first appeared in chiefdoms. The chiefs demanded not only money from the commoners but also labor for public works, which again might benefit the commoners, such as irrigation systems that helped feed everyone, or else it might benefit primarily the chiefs, such as lavish tombs. We have discussed chiefdoms in general terms, and it seems that they all follow a similar pattern. In fact, chiefdoms vary greatly. In larger chiefdoms, the chiefs had greater power, the chief's family had more ranks, the differences between chiefs and commoners were more pronounced, the tribute retained by the chiefs was greater, the layers of officials were more numerous, and the public buildings were more numerous. For example, societies on the small Polynesian islands were actually quite similar to tribal societies with great men, except that the position of chief was hereditary. The chief lived in a simple hut that looked like any other simple hut. There were no officials and no public buildings. The chief redistributed most of the property he received to the common people, and the land was managed by the community. But on the largest Polynesian islands, such as Hawaii, Tahiti, and Tonga, the chiefs were instantly recognizable by their decorations, public buildings were built by large labor forces, most tributes were retained by the chiefs, and all land was controlled by them. In a family-based hierarchical society, the political unit evolved from a society of autonomous villages to a society composed of a group of villages throughout the region. The largest village, with a paramount chief, controls smaller villages with lesser chiefs. By now, it should be obvious that chiefdoms present a dilemma fundamental to centralized, non-egalitarian societies. At best, they can provide expensive services that individuals cannot afford. At worst, they function as outright kleptocracy, transferring real wealth from the common people to the upper classes. These two functions, noble and selfish, are inextricably linked, although some governments emphasize one function far more than the other. The difference between a kleptocrat and a wise statesman, a robber baron and a patron of the public good, is one of degree: it is simply a matter of how much wealth is extracted from the producers. How much of the problem, left to the upper echelons, is the question of how much the common people like when redistributed wealth is used for public purposes. We consider President Mobutu of Zaire a kleptocrat because he appropriated too much wealth, the equivalent of billions of dollars, for himself and redistributed too little. There is no working telephone system in Zaire. We consider George Washington a statesman because he used tax dollars for widely acclaimed programs rather than lining the president's own pockets. However, Washington was born rich, and wealth is distributed far more unequally in the United States than in a village in New Guinea. In any hierarchical society, whether a chiefdom or a nation, one has to ask, why would the common people tolerate the fruits of their hard work being handed over to a kleptocrat? Political theorists from Plato to Marx have asked this question, and voters have asked it again in every modern election. Kleptocrats without public support are in danger of being overthrown, either by the oppressed masses or by new kleptocrats who rise to replace them. These new kleptocrats try to win public support by promising to provide more services in exchange for the spoils of their exploitation. For example, Hawaiian history is full of rebellions against oppressive chiefs, often led by the chief's brothers who promised to alleviate the oppression. This might sound ridiculous in light of Hawaii's past, but it doesn't if we consider the suffering such struggles cause in the modern world. How can an elite retain popular support while still maintaining a more comfortable lifestyle than the common people? Kleptocrats throughout history have employed a combination of four methods: 1. Disarm the civilian population while arming the upper echelons of power. This is much easier in modern times with high-tech weapons than in ancient times with spears and clubs. Modern weapons can only be produced in factories and are easily monopolized by the upper echelons, while ancient weapons can be easily made at home. 2. Use common methods to redistribute a large portion of the wealth obtained to the masses to win their favor. This principle was as effective for Hawaiian chiefs in the past as it is for American politicians today. 3. Use absolute control of force to maintain public order and stop violence to promote social happiness. This may be a huge and underappreciated advantage of centralized societies over decentralized ones. Anthropologists previously idealized ethnic and tribal societies, saying they were gentle, non-violent societies. This is because some visiting anthropologists found no murders in a group of 25 people after three years of study. They certainly would not find that a group of a dozen adults and a dozen children often encountered deaths that were inevitable due to normal causes other than murder. If, in addition to these deaths, one of the dozen adults killed another adult every three years, then the group itself could not survive for long. This is easy to calculate. Data accumulated over time show that murder is the leading cause of death. For example, when a female anthropologist was investigating the life histories of Iayawu women in New Guinea, whom I happened to be visiting at the same time, woman after woman was asked to name her husbands. She would recount a series of husbands who had died tragically. The typical answer was this: "My first husband was killed by Elopi raiders. My second husband was killed by a man who wanted me, who became my third husband. This husband was killed by my second husband's brother in revenge for his brother's death. " This kind of life experience is commonplace for the so-called gentle tribesmen, so as tribal society develops, The expansion of this situation fosters acceptance of central authority. 4 A final method kleptocrats use to gain public support is to create an ideology or religion that justifies their kleptocratic rule. Ethnic groups and tribes originally believed in spirits and gods, just as modern state religions do. However, ethnic and tribal beliefs in spirits and gods cannot be used to justify central authority and the transfer of wealth, nor can they be used to maintain peace among unrelated people. When superstitions about spirits and gods acquire these functions and become institutionalized, they become what we call religions. Hawaiian chiefs can serve as representatives of chiefs elsewhere in promoting divinity, the incarnation of gods, or at least communication with gods. The chief claims that he serves the people. It is to intercede with the gods on their behalf, and to chant the necessary spells in the rituals to pray for rain, good harvests and successful fishing. Let me add here that people living in China will probably smile knowingly when they hear their rhetoric, because this set of things has existed in China for decades. Okay, let's get back to this book. Chiefdoms all have a unique ideology, which is the predecessor of organized religion. It maintains the authority of the chief. The chief can be both a political leader and a priest. He can also support a separate group of thieves, that is, the priest group. The duty of this group is to provide ideological defense for the chief. This is why the chiefdom has to levy such a large amount of money specifically for the construction of temples and other public works, because these buildings can serve as the center of official religion and a conspicuous symbol of the chief's power. In addition to justifying the transfer of wealth to the thieves, Organized religion also brought two other important benefits to centralized societies. The first was that a common ideology or religion helped solve the problem of how unrelated people could get along without killing each other by providing them with constraints that were not based on kinship. The second was that it gave people an incentive to sacrifice their lives for others rather than for their own benefit. At the cost of a few members of society dying on the battlefield, the entire society would be more effective in conquering other societies or defending against foreign aggression. The political, economic, and social system with which we are most familiar today is the state, which now governs all regions of the world except Antarctica. Many early states and all modern states had literate elites, and many modern states still have literate masses. Disappeared states often leave behind obvious archaeological signs, such as the ruins of temples with standardized designs. There are at least four different sizes of settlements and a variety of pottery styles across tens of thousands of miles. We know from this that states emerged in Mesopotamia around 3700 BC, in Central America around 300 BC, in the Andes, China, and Southeast Asia over 2000 years ago, and in West Africa over 1000 years ago. In modern times, we continue to see states formed from chiefdoms. Therefore, we know much more about past states and their formation than we do about past chiefdoms, tribes, and ethnic groups. Proto-states developed many characteristics of large, multi-village chiefdoms, which grew in size from ethnic groups to tribes and from tribes to chiefdoms. Chiefdoms ranged in population from a few thousand to tens of thousands, while most modern states have populations over a million, and China has over a billion. The most important The chief's place of residence might become the nation's capital city. Other population centers outside the capital city might also qualify as true cities, which were not found in the chiefdom. Cities differed from villages in that they had important public works, palaces where the ruler lived, capital accumulation from tribute and taxes, and concentrated populations other than food producers. Early states had a hereditary leader who qualified as a king. He was like a super-supreme chief who exercised an even greater monopoly on information, decision-making, and power. Even in today's democracies, vital knowledge is only accessible to a few. They controlled the flow of information to other branches of government, and consequently, decision-making. For example, during the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1963, President Kennedy initially restricted information and discussion on determining whether a nuclear war would engulf 500 million people to his personally appointed officials. later, he limited the final say to a four-man panel consisting of himself and his three cabinet ministers. Central control was more far-reaching in the state than in the chiefdoms, and economic redistribution in the form of tribute and later taxation was also more extensive in the state than in the chiefdoms. Economic specialization had reached such extremes that today even farmers cannot maintain self-sufficiency. Therefore, when the state government collapsed, the effects on society were catastrophic, as happened in Britain when Rome withdrew its army, administrators, and coinage between 407 and 411 AD. Even the earliest Mesopotamian states exercised central control over their economies. Their food was produced by four specialized groups: farmers who produced grain, herders, fishermen, and growers of orchards and vegetable gardens. The state received products from each group and distributed to each group essential household items, tools, and foods that the group did not produce. The state supplied seeds and draft animals to farmers who grew grain, obtained wool from herders, exchanged wool for metal products and other essential raw materials through long-distance trade, and distributed food to the workers who maintained the irrigation systems on which farmers depended. Many early states, perhaps most of them, experienced slavery and were much larger than chiefdoms. This was not because chiefdoms were more lenient in dealing with defeated enemies, but because the development of state economic specialization required more large-scale production and more public works. In addition, larger state wars allowed for more captives. Chiefdoms had previously had only one or two administrative levels, while in states there were many more administrative levels. Anyone who has seen an organizational chart of any government knows this. In addition to the vastly increased vertical bureaucracy, there are also specialized departments. The chiefdom official, Konohiki, is responsible for all administrative matters in a Hawaiian region. National governments are different. They are divided into several departments, each dealing with matters such as water management, taxation, and conscription, and each department has its own hierarchy. Even small countries have more complex administrative systems than large chiefdoms. For example, the West African country of Maradi once had a central government with over 130 titled positions alone. To resolve internal conflicts, laws, legal systems, and police agencies became increasingly formalized. Laws were frequently enacted because many countries had a literate elite. There were notable exceptions, such as the Inca Empire, and writing and the earliest states were also established at the same time. In Mesopotamia and Central America, relatively undeveloped early chiefdoms, none of which developed writing. Early states already had state religions and standardized temples. Many early kings were considered divinely appointed and given special treatment in countless ways. For example, Aztec and Inca emperors traveled in sedan chairs; servants walked before the Inca emperor's sedan chair to sweep the ground; and Japanese has a special form of the pronoun "you" used to address the emperor. Early kings themselves were the heads of state religions, or else a high priest was appointed. Mesopotamian temples were centers not only of religious activity but also of economic redistribution, writing, and crafts. All these features of the state took the development from tribe to chiefdom to an extreme. However, in addition, the state evolved from the chiefdom. The result of evolution in several different directions. The most fundamental difference in this regard is that states are organized along political and territorial lines, not along kinship lines that divide ethnic groups, tribes, and simple chiefdoms. Moreover, ethnic groups and tribes always consist of a single ethnic group and language family, and chiefdoms usually do the same. However, states, especially empires formed through the merger or conquest of several states, usually include different ethnic groups and speak multiple languages. In later states, including most today, leadership often becomes non-hereditary, and many states abandon the entire system of formal hereditary classes that remained of chiefdoms. The main trend in human society over the past 13, 000 years has been for larger, more complex units to replace smaller, less complex ones. Obviously, this is only a general long-term trend. There have been countless changes throughout history: for every 1, 000 unifications, there have been 999 splits. We know from the newspapers that large units such as the Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, and Czechoslovakia have sometimes broken up into smaller units, as happened in Alexander the Great's empire in Macedonia more than 2, 000 years ago. More complex units do not always conquer less complex ones, and many have succumbed to them, as in the Roman Empire. Just as the Roman and Chinese empires were ravaged by "barbarian" and Mongol chiefdoms, respectively, long-term trends favored large, complex societies that eventually rose to become states. It is also clear that states succeeded in conflicts with simpler entities partly because of their superiority in weaponry and other technology, as well as their numerical superiority. But chiefdoms and states also had two other inherent potential advantages. First, central decision-makers had the advantage of concentrated forces and resources. Second, the official religion and patriotism of many states made their armies willing to die in battle for their country. In modern countries, the idea of being willing to sacrifice one's life for the country is so strongly instilled in our citizens by our schools, churches and governments that we forget that it marks a complete break with previous human history. Every country has its own slogan to encourage its citizens to be ready to sacrifice their lives for the country when necessary: Britain's slogan is "For King and Country", Spain's slogan is "For God and Spain", and so on. The same thoughts and feelings also inspired the Aztec warriors in the 16th century: "To die in battle is the most glorious thing. The God who gave us life values this glorious death the most: I saw it from afar, and my heart is filled with desire for it! " Let me add here, what is the slogan in China that encourages residents to be leeks? Feel free to share your thoughts in the comments. Okay, back to the book. This kind of mentality is unthinkable among ethnic groups and tribes. My New Guinea friends have told me about their past tribal wars, but in all their descriptions there is no trace of tribal patriotism, suicidal charges, or any military action undertaken at the risk of life. Instead, attacks were carried out by ambushes or superior forces, and every effort was made to minimize the risk of sacrificing lives for their villages. But compared with state societies, this attitude severely limits the military options of tribes. Of course, it is not the death of ardent patriots and religious believers themselves that makes them such dangerous opponents, but their willingness to sacrifice some of their own people in exchange for the destruction or subjugation of their pagan enemies. The kind of war frenzy that drove Christians and Muslims to conquest in the past 6, 000 years, before the emergence of chiefdoms and especially states, is probably unprecedented on Earth. How did small, decentralized, kinship-based societies evolve into large, centralized societies where most members are not closely related to each other? Having reviewed the various stages of the transition from ethnic groups to states, we now ask: What compels societies to undergo such transformations? At many times in history, states have emerged independently or, as cultural anthropologists call them, "primitively, " that is, in the absence of any surrounding states that predate them. The emergence of primitive states occurred at least once on every continent except Australia and North America, and perhaps many times. Prehistoric states include those in Mesopotamia, northern China, the Nile and Indus valleys, Central America, the Andes, and West Africa. In the past three centuries, princely states have repeatedly emerged in chiefdoms in Madagascar, Hawaii, Tahiti, and many parts of Africa as a result of contact with European states. In all these regions, as well as in southeastern North America, the Pacific Northwest, and the Amazon region, The emergence of some of the earliest chiefdoms occurred even more frequently in Africa, Polynesia, and sub-Saharan Africa. The emergence of all these complex societies provides us with a rich source of information on their development. Of the many theories that have addressed the origins of the state, the simplest denies that there is any problem to be solved. Aristotle believed that the state was the natural state of human society and needed no explanation. His error is understandable because all the societies he could have known, including Greek society in the fourth century BC, were states. However, we now know that a large part of the world was still composed of chiefdoms, tribes, or ethnic groups until 1492 AD. The formation of the world state does need explanation. The second theory is the most familiar to everyone, that of the French philosopher Jean-Pierre. Jacques Rousseau theorized that states were organized according to a social contract. People, making rational decisions in calculating their own self-interest, agreed that their economic situation would be better in the state than in simpler societies and voluntarily abolished their simpler societies. But neither our observations nor the historical record reveal a single instance in which states were organized with the cool foresight of easy grace. Smaller units would not voluntarily give up their sovereignty to merge into larger ones, only through conquest or under external coercion. A third theory, even more favored by historians and economists, starts from the indisputable fact that large-scale irrigation systems in Mesopotamia, northern China, and Mexico emerged around the time that states began to emerge. The theory, which began to be built at that time, also stated that any large and complex irrigation system or water management required a centralized administrative system to build and maintain it. The theory then transformed an observed preliminary connection in time into a hypothetical chain of causation. The inhabitants of Mesopotamia, northern China, and Mexico probably foresaw the potential benefits of large-scale irrigation systems, even though no such systems existed within thousands of miles or anywhere else on the planet to demonstrate these benefits. These far-sighted people decided to merge their small, inefficient chiefdoms into larger states that would allow them to enjoy large-scale irrigation. However, this "hydraulic theory" of state formation encountered the same objections as the general contract theory. More specifically, it deals only with the final stages in the evolution of complex societies. It says nothing about what drove the progression from bands to tribes to chiefdoms during the millennia before large-scale irrigation became possible. Detailed historical or archaeological dating has failed to support the view that irrigation was a driving force in state formation. Small-scale irrigation systems predate states in Mesopotamia, northern China, Mexico, and Madagascar. Large-scale irrigation systems were not simultaneous with the emergence of states in these regions; significant irrigation systems developed only later. In most states that formed in Mesoamerica and the Andes, irrigation systems remained small-scale, local societies relying on themselves. Even in those areas where complex water management systems did emerge, these systems were only indirect results of state formation, which must have had other causes. In my opinion, the most fundamentally correct view about state formation is supported by the undoubted fact that regional population size is the single most powerful predictor of social complexity. This fact is far more convincing than the correlation between irrigation and the formation of certain states. We have seen that tribes have dozens of people, tribes have hundreds of people, chiefdoms have thousands to tens of thousands of people, and states generally have more than 50, 000 people. In addition to this rough correlation between regional population size and social type, there is a clear correlation within these types of societies between population and social complexity. There is a more subtle trend between the two, for example, that chiefdoms with large populations prove to be the most centralized, the most hierarchical, and the most complex societies. These correlations strongly suggest that regional population size, population density, or population pressure has some relationship with the formation of complex societies. But these correlations do not tell us explicitly how the various variables of population function in the chain of causation that is the origin of complex societies. To outline this chain, let us now remind ourselves how some large populations arise. We can then examine why a large, simple society is difficult to maintain. Against this background, we will finally return to how a simple society can change as the regional population grows. This question is more complex. We have seen that large or dense populations can only occur under conditions of food production, or at least under conditions of exceptional abundance for hunter-gatherers. Some abundant hunter-gatherer societies have reached the level of chiefdoms, but none have reached the level of states, because all states rely on food production to feed their citizens. These considerations, combined with the correlation between regional population size and social complexity mentioned above, have led to a long-standing "chicken or egg" debate about the causal relationship between food production, demographic variables, and social complexity. Does intensive food production trigger population growth and thus, in some way, lead to complex societies? Or do large populations and complex societies, in turn, in some way lead to the intensification of food production? To pose the question in binary terms misses the point. Intensified food production and social complexity reinforce each other through self-catalysis. That is, population growth, through the mechanisms we will discuss, leads to social complexity, which in turn leads to intensified food production, which in turn leads to population growth. Only a complex, centralized society could organize public works, including irrigation systems; long-distance trade, including the importation of metals to make better farm tools; and the activities of specialized economic groups, such as farmers' food to feed herders, who in turn provide herders' livestock for farmers to use as draft animals. All these functions of a centralized society promote intensified food production. Furthermore, food production helped to define complex societies in at least three ways. First, it provided seasonal labor for regular inputs. Once the harvests were stored, centralized administrations could use the farmers' labor to build public works that promoted national power, such as the pyramids in Egypt, or to feed larger populations, such as the irrigation systems and fish ponds in Hawaii in Polynesia, or to engage in wars of conquest that expanded political entities. Second, food production was organized to generate surplus reserves, which made economic specialization and social stratification possible. Surplus food could be used to feed all levels of a complex society: chiefs, officials, and the upper class. other members of the class; scribes, artisans, and other non-food production specialists; and the peasants themselves when they were conscripted to build public works. Finally, food production forced or required a settled lifestyle, a lifestyle that was a prerequisite for the accumulation of sufficient wealth, the development of complex technology and sophisticated crafts, and the construction of public works. This importance of fixed dwellings to complex societies explains why missionaries and governments generally had two immediate objectives when they first came into contact with previously uncontacted nomadic tribes or groups in New Guinea and the Amazon. One objective, of course, was the obvious one of "pacifying" the nomads: that is, persuading them not to kill the missionaries. Another purpose was to persuade these nomadic tribes to settle down in villages so that missionaries and officials could find them, provide them with services such as health care and school education, and convert them to religious beliefs, thereby controlling them. Therefore, food production not only increased the population but also played a role in many aspects, enabling complex societies to form some of their own characteristics. However, this does not prove that food production and a large population make the emergence of complex societies inevitable. According to actual observations, ethnic or tribal organizations are not applicable to societies with hundreds of thousands of people, and existing large societies have complex centralized organizations. How do we explain this observation? We can cite at least four obvious reasons. One is the problem of conflict between unrelated strangers, which becomes incalculable as the population of a society increases. A group of 20 people has only 190 possible two-person interactions, while a group of 2, 000 people may have 1. 999 million two-person combinations. Each such two-person combination is a potential time bomb that may explode in a murderous quarrel. Every murder in group and tribal societies usually leads to a deliberate revenge killing, which starts a new round of murder and revenge, and this cycle repeats endlessly, undermining social stability. In a group, everyone is closely related to everyone else, and people who are related to both parties in the quarrel will intervene to mediate the dispute. In a tribe, many people are still close relatives, and everyone can at least call everyone else by name. When a quarrel occurs, relatives and friends of both sides mediate. "A few hundred people" is the limit within which everyone can know everyone else. Once this limit is exceeded, more and more pairs of people become pairs of strangers with no family relationship. When strangers fight, the people present are rarely friends or relatives of the fighting party, and there is no personal interest for them to stop the fight. On the contrary, if many bystanders are friends or relatives of the fighting party, they will stand on his side, and the result of what was originally a fight between two people will gradually escalate into a chaotic group fight. Therefore, a large society that continues to leave conflicts to all members to resolve is bound to fall apart. This factor alone explains why a society of several thousand people can only exist if there is a centralized administrative agency that has complete control over force and resolves conflicts. A second reason is that as the population increases, joint decision-making becomes increasingly difficult. Decision-making by all adults is still possible in some villages in New Guinea. Yes, but these villages were small, and news and announcements reached everyone quickly. Everyone could hear everyone else's opinions at the village meeting, and everyone had a chance to express his or her opinion. But all these prerequisites for collective decision-making are no longer met in larger societies. Even in today's age of microphones and loudspeakers, we know that a small group meeting can never solve the problems of a group of thousands of people. Therefore, a large society must be organized and under centralized control if it is to make decisions effectively. A third reason is economic. Any society needs a means of transferring goods among its members. One person may happen to have more of a basic commodity on one day and less on another. Because people have different talents and abilities, they usually have too much of some necessities and too little of others. In small societies with only a few pairs of members, this leads to The necessary transfers of goods can be arranged directly between pairs of individuals or families through reciprocal exchange. The same mathematical calculations that make direct pairwise conflict resolution inefficient in large societies also make direct pairwise economic transfers inefficient. Large societies can function economically only if they have an economy of redistribution in addition to a reciprocal one. Goods in excess of an individual's needs must be transferred from that individual to a centralized administrative body and then redistributed by that body to those who have insufficient goods. A final reason why large societies must have complex organizations has to do with population density. Large societies of food producers have more members than small bands of hunter-gatherers, and their populations are also more densely populated. Each band of a few dozen hunters occupies a large area within which they can obtain most of the resources essential to them. They can obtain other necessities of life through exchange with neighboring bands between inter-band warfare. As population density increases, As the density increases, an area that originally contained only a few dozen people may become a very small area. More and more of the necessities of life have to be obtained from outside the area. For example, we can divide the 16, 000 square miles of the Netherlands and its 16 million people into 800, 000 separate plots. Each plot contains 13 acres of land and is used as the home of an independent group of 20 people. These people live a self-sufficient life within the confines of their 13 acres of land, occasionally taking advantage of temporary truces to go to the borders of their small plots to exchange goods and brides with neighboring groups. This spatial reality requires densely populated areas to support large, complex societies. These considerations of conflict resolution, decision-making, economic factors, and space combine to require centralization of large societies. But the concentration of power inevitably creates difficulties for those who hold power, those who privately possess information, those who make decisions, and those who redistribute wealth. This wide opening allowed them to exploit the opportunities it created to their advantage and that of their kin. This should be obvious to anyone familiar with modern human classification. As early societies developed, those who gained centralized power became the recognized elite. Perhaps they had already belonged to one of the few previously egalitarian village clans, which were simply "more equal" than the others. This is why large societies cannot operate as group organizations but only as kleptocracy. But we still have a problem, which is how small, simple societies actually evolved or merged into large, complex societies. The merger, centralized conflict resolution, decision-making, economic redistribution, and religion of the kleptocrats did not just happen automatically through some Rousseauian social contract. What drove this merger? The answer to this question depends in part on evolutionary reasoning. I said at the beginning of this chapter that societies grouped together are not identical because individuals and groups of people always differ. For example, the leaders of some groups and tribes are necessarily more charismatic, more powerful, and more skillful in making decisions than those of others. In large tribes, tribes with more powerful leaders and thus greater concentrations of power tend to have some advantages over tribes with less concentrated power. Tribes that resolve conflicts poorly, as the Fayu do, tend to break up into groups, and poorly governed chiefdoms break up into smaller chiefdoms or tribes. Societies that resolve conflicts effectively, make good decisions, and practice harmonious economic redistribution can develop better technology, concentrate their military power, seize larger and more productive territories, and gradually defeat independent smaller societies. Therefore, if conditions allow, societies of equal complexity will Competition between societies often led to more complex societies. Tribes conquered or annexed each other until they reached the size of chiefdoms; chiefdoms conquered or annexed each other until they reached the size of states; states conquered or annexed each other until they formed empires. More generally, large units might have some advantages over smaller ones if, and this is a big "if, " these large units could solve the problems that came with size: the ever-present threat of arrogant leaders, the resentment of commoners against kleptocracy, and the increased problems associated with economic integration. The merger of small units into large ones is well documented, both historically and archaeologically. Contrary to Rousseau's view, such mergers did not occur through the free decision of small, unthreatened societies to promote the happiness of their citizens. The leaders of small societies valued their independence and privileges as much as the leaders of large societies. There are countless examples of each type of consolidation. A good example of consolidation under external threat is the formation of the Cherokee Indian Confederacy in the southeastern United States. The Cherokee Indians were originally divided into 30 or 40 independent chiefdoms. Each chiefdom was a village of about 400 people. The expansion of white settlements led to conflicts between the Cherokee and the whites. When individual Cherokees robbed or attacked white settlers or traders, the whites could not distinguish between the different Cherokee chiefdoms and attacked any Cherokee indiscriminately. In response to retaliatory measures, military action, or the cessation of trade with them, the various Cherokee chiefdoms gradually found themselves forced to join a single confederation in the 18th century. At first, the larger chiefdoms elected an overarching leader in 1730, a chief named Moitoi, who was succeeded by his son in 1741. The primary tasks of these leaders were to punish individual Cherokees who attacked whites and to deal with the white government. Around 1758, the Cherokees standardized their decision-making by holding annual meetings in one village, modeled after the old village councils. The village thus became a de facto "capital. " Eventually, these Cherokees became literate and adopted a written constitution, as we saw in Chapter 12. The Cherokee Indian Confederacy was thus established, not by conquest but by the fusion of previously wary smaller entities, a fusion that could only occur when those entities were in danger of being destroyed by a powerful external force. Similarly, every American history textbook tells the story of nation-building: one of the white American colonies, Georgia, helped to establish the Cherokee nation, and these colonies were later forced to establish their own nations when threatened by the powerful external force of the British monarchy. The American colonies initially guarded their autonomy as jealously as the Cherokee chiefdoms. Their first attempt at confederation, under the Articles of Confederation of 1781, proved unrealistic because it reserved too much autonomy for the former colonies. It was only after further threats that the famous confederation was established. It took Shays's Rebellion of 1786 and the unresolved burden of war debts to overcome the former colonies' extreme reluctance to sacrifice autonomy and induce them to adopt our current, highly effective Federal Constitution of 1787. The unification of Germany's wary states in the 19th century proved equally difficult. After France declared war in 1870, this external threat finally led the petty princes to surrender a significant portion of their power to the central government of the German Empire in 1871, and three earlier attempts at unification had failed. Besides coalitions achieved under external threat, another way complex societies formed was through conquest. A well-documented example is the origins of the Zulu nation in southeastern Africa. When first encountered by white settlers, the Zulus were divided into dozens of small chiefdoms. In the late 1700s, as population pressures grew, warfare between the chiefdoms intensified. In all these chiefdoms, the common problems in the design of a centralized power structure were addressed by a man named Dingiswayo. Dingiswayo was quite successful in resolving the issue. Around 1807, he gained control of the Mthetwa chiefdom by killing a rival. Dingiswayo selected young men from various villages and organized them into bands based on age rather than village. He also developed an excellent centralized military organization. When conquering other chiefdoms, he prohibited killing and spared the families of defeated chiefs. He replaced the chief with a relative of the chief who was willing to cooperate with Dingiswayo. He expanded the jurisdiction of disputes and developed better centralized conflict resolution methods. In this way, Dingiswayo was able to conquer and begin to incorporate the remaining 30 Zulu chiefdoms. His successors expanded the judicial system, strengthened supervision, and developed rituals, which strengthened the embryonic state. Examples of states formed through conquest are almost too numerous to mention. Some Europeans in the 18th and 19th centuries happened to witness the establishment of a new state by a chief. The Aztec and Inca empires were founded by conquest in the 15th century, before the arrival of Europeans, but we know much about their formation from the oral histories of the Indians translated by early Spanish settlers. The formation of the Roman Empire and the expansion of the Macedonian Empire under Alexander were described in detail by contemporary classical writers. In all these cases, war, or the threat of war, played a key role in the coalescence of most, if not all, societies. But war, even simply war between groups, has been a constant fact of human society. Why, then, has it been only in the past 13, 000 years that war has clearly begun to cause the coalescence of societies? We have already concluded that the formation of complex societies is somehow linked to population pressure, so we should now look for a connection between population pressure and the consequences of war. Why do wars always lead to the merger of societies when populations are dense rather than when they are sparse? The answer is that the fate of the defeated people depends on population density, with three possible consequences: Where population density is very low, as is often the case in areas occupied by hunter-gatherers, the survivors of the defeated group can simply move away from their enemies, as is often the case with wars between nomadic tribes in New Guinea and the Amazon. Where population density is moderate, as is often the case in areas occupied by food-producing tribes, there are no large open areas for the survivors of the defeated group to escape to. But tribal societies without intensive food production cannot produce enough food surplus to provide a significant portion of tribute without the use of slaves. Therefore, the survivors of the defeated tribe The defeated men were of no use to the victors except by marrying their women. The defeated men were killed, and their territory might be taken by the victors. Where population density was high, as in states or chiefdoms, the defeated still had nowhere to escape, but the victors had two options for exploiting them: because chiefdom and state societies had developed economic specialization, the defeated could be used as slaves, as was common in biblical times; or, because many such societies had intensive food production systems that produced large surpluses, the victors could keep the defeated in their old jobs. It simply deprived them of their political autonomy, requiring them to pay regular tribute in the form of grain or goods and incorporating their societies into the victorious state or chiefdom. This was the usual outcome of battles associated with the founding of states or empires throughout recorded history. For example, the Spanish conquistadors wanted to extort tribute from the defeated native Mexicans, so they were interested in the Aztec Empire's tribute list. It turned out that the annual tribute the Aztecs collected from their subjects included 7, 000 tons of corn, 4, 000 tons of beans, 4, 000 tons of amaranth seeds, 2 million cotton cloaks, large quantities of cocoa beans, military uniforms, shields, feather headdresses, and amber. Thus, competition and mixing between food production and societies produced the immediate driving forces of conquest: germs, writing, technology, and centralized political organization. These were ultimate causes, expressed through a chain of causal relationships, which varied in detail but were all related to large, dense populations and settled lifestyles. Because these ultimate causes, in different There were different developments on different continents, and these driving forces of conquest also developed differently on different continents. Therefore, these driving forces often appeared together in connection with each other, but this connection is not absolute: for example, among the Incas, an empire without writing emerged, while among the Aztecs, an empire with writing but few epidemics emerged. The Zulus of Dingiswayo proved that each of these driving forces contributed more or less independently to historical patterns. Among the dozens of Zulu chiefdoms, the Mtetwa chiefdom had no advantage over the other chiefdoms in technology, writing, or germs, but it still managed to defeat them. Its advantage lay only in management and ideology, which enabled the resulting Zulu state to conquer part of a continent in nearly a century. Well, today's book sharing ends here for now. Today we read Chapter 14 of Guns, Germs, and Steel: From Egalitarianism to Kleptocracy. I look forward to seeing you again in the next book sharing.
