Timestamp: 2025-06-03T09:44:54.209822
Title: Sam Altman : How to Build the Future
URL: https://youtube.com/watch?v=sYMqVwsewSg&si=3Bh-1VEKQVfEiLHG
Status: success
Duration: 21:09

Description:
好的，以下是根据提供的文本提炼和总结的内容：

**总结大纲：**

1.  **引言：** Jack 采访兄弟 Sam Altman 关于年轻人如何产生影响的建议。
2.  **核心要素：**
    *   **选择做什么：** 寻找能力、兴趣和世界需求的交集。需要提前深入思考，而非随波逐流。
    *   **选择和谁做：** 找到“同类人”（tribe），可能需要搬迁靠近他们。无私帮助他人，长期来看会获得意想不到的帮助和合作机会。与令人印象深刻、能成事的人合作。
    *   **如何完成事情：** 需要专注、人脉联系，以及最重要的是深厚的自我信念（坚信你能做成）。
3.  **职业成长与心态：**
    *   **早期努力工作的重要性：** 类似复利效应。职业生涯初期多投入时间精力，能更快提升技能、拓展人脉、增加产出，长远回报巨大。要比大多数人认为的更努力。
    *   **何时放弃与坚持：** 很难判断。多数人放弃太早。事情需要漫长时间，会经历批评和无人问津的“悲伤之谷”。放弃的决定应基于**内部**判断（是否已无好的新想法且事情确实不奏效），而非外部负面反馈或缺乏用户。
    *   **动机来源：** 对所做之事重要性的强烈信念、享受工作过程以及与喜欢的人合作。最初的金钱/名声动机常演变为更深层的使命。倦怠源于失败/缺乏进展，而非单纯工作时长。势头能带来巨大能量。
    *   **承担风险：** 人们普遍不擅长风险计算，尤其是年轻时（无名、贫穷）承担的风险不足。最大的风险是因 **未尝试** 你深信的事而带来的后悔。要做“实干家”（doer），而非“空谈者”（talker）。承担经过计算的风险，全身心投入，不要过度担心失败或尴尬。
    *   **勇敢争取：** 敢于提出你的需求，会听到很多“不”，但也会有“是”。要有一定的进取心。
    *   **应对危机：** 每经历一次危机，下一次就会没那么可怕。你会学到如何生存并找到解决方案，从而建立韧性。
4.  **长期视角：**
    *   **投资与财富：** 时间是市场中少数尚未被充分利用的“套利”机会。着眼长期持有（甚至永远）有巨大价值。伟大的公司为世界创造巨大价值，然后只捕获其中一小部分；创始人也因创造的价值而获益。长期投入一家伟大的公司远胜于追逐短期收益。
    *   **信念与灵活性：** 对未来要有坚定的核心看法，但在具体实现细节上保持灵活（是优化而非随机转向）。在你有强烈信念的领域集中精力（职业或投资）是可行的，不必过度分散。
5.  **给年轻人的最终建议：** 深入思考你能在哪里做出最大贡献（能力、兴趣、世界需求）。找到合作者，学习相关知识，拥有坚定的信念，敢于承担风险，保持专注并**付诸行动**。失败并不可怕，可以重新尝试。越早开始，机会越大。

**核心观点总结：**

要产生巨大影响，关键在于找到你深信不疑且擅长的领域，勇敢承担风险并长期坚持不懈地付诸实践。

**顶层框架：**

产生影响的关键要素

**<Mermaid_Diagram>**
graph TD
    A["产生影响"]

    subgraph "选择与定位"
        B["做什么？"] --> B1["能力、兴趣、世界需求 的交集"]
        C["和谁一起？"] --> C1["找到同类人 (部落)"]
        C --> C2["无私帮助他人 (长期回报)"]
        C --> C3["与实干家合作"]
    end

    subgraph "执行与心态 (如何做？)"
        D["如何达成目标？"] --> D1["专注"]
        D --> D2["人脉联系"]
        D --> D3["深厚的自我信念 (Conviction)"]
        D --> E["早期努力 (复利效应)"]
        D --> F["坚持不懈"]
        D --> G["内在动机"]
        D --> H["承担风险"]
        D --> I["勇敢争取"]
        D --> J["应对危机"]
    end

    subgraph "长期策略"
        K["长期视角"] --> K1["投资 (时间套利，长期持有)"]
        K --> K2["公司建设 (价值创造，长期承诺)"]
        K --> L["信念与灵活性"]
    end

    B --> D
    C --> D
    F --> F1["内部决策 (而非外部)"]
    G --> G1["信念、享受、势头"]
    H --> H1["计算过的风险"]
    H --> H2["做实干家"]
    H --> H3["避免后悔 (不尝试)"]
    J --> J1["学会生存 (建立韧性)"]
    L --> D3
    L --> B1
    E --> K
    F --> K

    B1 --> B
    C1 --> C
    C2 --> C
    C3 --> C
    D1 --> D
    D2 --> D
    D3 --> D
    E --> D
    F --> D
    G --> D
    H --> D
    I --> D
    J --> D
    F1 --> F
    G1 --> G
    H1 --> H
    H2 --> H
    H3 --> H
    J1 --> J
    K1 --> K
    K2 --> K
    L --> K

    B,C,D,K --> A


    style A fill:#F9F7D8,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#333;
    style B fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style C fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style D fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style E fill:#FFFFCC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style F fill:#FFFFCC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style G fill:#FFFFCC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style H fill:#FFFFCC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style I fill:#FFFFCC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style J fill:#FFFFCC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style K fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style L fill:#FFFFCC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style B1 fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style C1 fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style C2 fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style C3 fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style D1 fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style D2 fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style D3 fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style F1 fill:#FFB6C1,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style G1 fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style H1 fill:#FFB6C1,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style H2 fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style H3 fill:#FFB6C1,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style J1 fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style K1 fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style K2 fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
**</Mermaid_Diagram>**

Content:
WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en I'm Jack, Sam's brother, and we are here I'm Jack, Sam's brother, and we are here I'm Jack, Sam's brother, and we are here in our backyard where we also live with in our backyard where we also live with in our backyard where we also live with our other brother. And Sam wanted to our other brother. And Sam wanted to our other brother. And Sam wanted to give us some advice about how to have an give us some advice about how to have an give us some advice about how to have an impact on the world. Uh, and since he impact on the world. Uh, and since he impact on the world. Uh, and since he couldn't interview himself, here I am. couldn't interview himself, here I am. couldn't interview himself, here I am. So, Sam, thank you. Thank you for taking So, Sam, thank you. Thank you for taking So, Sam, thank you. Thank you for taking the time. Yeah, my pleasure. So, to get the time. Yeah, my pleasure. So, to get the time. Yeah, my pleasure. So, to get started, I think one of the things that started, I think one of the things that started, I think one of the things that people talk a lot about is how to get people talk a lot about is how to get people talk a lot about is how to get things done, what you're working on. Um, things done, what you're working on. Um, things done, what you're working on. Um, but I know you spend a lot of time but I know you spend a lot of time but I know you spend a lot of time thinking about sort of what to work on. thinking about sort of what to work on. thinking about sort of what to work on. So, could you talk a little bit about So, could you talk a little bit about So, could you talk a little bit about how to pick what's important to work on? how to pick what's important to work on? how to pick what's important to work on? Yeah. Um, I I think you want to look for Yeah. Um, I I think you want to look for Yeah. Um, I I think you want to look for the intersection of what you're good at, the intersection of what you're good at, the intersection of what you're good at, what you enjoy, and and what where you what you enjoy, and and what where you what you enjoy, and and what where you can create value for the world. And in can create value for the world. And in can create value for the world. And in my experience, if you don't find some of my experience, if you don't find some of my experience, if you don't find some of the intersection of those three, it's the intersection of those three, it's the intersection of those three, it's hard to really have an impact. I think hard to really have an impact. I think hard to really have an impact. I think most people kind of just fall into what most people kind of just fall into what most people kind of just fall into what they work on. They don't give it much they work on. They don't give it much they work on. They don't give it much thought. And there is benefit to that. thought. And there is benefit to that. thought. And there is benefit to that. Uh, sometimes you actually have to just Uh, sometimes you actually have to just Uh, sometimes you actually have to just try stuff to figure out what you like. try stuff to figure out what you like. try stuff to figure out what you like. But I really do think it is worth But I really do think it is worth But I really do think it is worth upfront thought about what you're going upfront thought about what you're going upfront thought about what you're going to spend most of your waking time doing. to spend most of your waking time doing. to spend most of your waking time doing. So I think it's really good when people So I think it's really good when people So I think it's really good when people think about what they're good at, what think about what they're good at, what think about what they're good at, what they like, and and kind of how they can they like, and and kind of how they can they like, and and kind of how they can create value for the world. And and sort create value for the world. And and sort create value for the world. And and sort of in addition to what people are of in addition to what people are of in addition to what people are working on, I know at Y Combinator, you working on, I know at Y Combinator, you working on, I know at Y Combinator, you talk a lot about who people are working talk a lot about who people are working talk a lot about who people are working on things with. Uh how do you advise on things with. Uh how do you advise on things with. Uh how do you advise people to select sort of who they're people to select sort of who they're people to select sort of who they're working on things with? Um this is this working on things with? Um this is this working on things with? Um this is this is really hard. uh finding your tribe, is really hard. uh finding your tribe, is really hard. uh finding your tribe, finding the sort of people that you end finding the sort of people that you end finding the sort of people that you end up working with on and off for the rest up working with on and off for the rest up working with on and off for the rest of your career is is really hard. Uh I of your career is is really hard. Uh I of your career is is really hard. Uh I think I'll tell you some things I've think I'll tell you some things I've think I'll tell you some things I've learned and I will admit that I don't learned and I will admit that I don't learned and I will admit that I don't have a perfect answer to this yet, but I have a perfect answer to this yet, but I have a perfect answer to this yet, but I think one thing is you should be willing think one thing is you should be willing think one thing is you should be willing to move. Um for whatever you're doing, to move. Um for whatever you're doing, to move. Um for whatever you're doing, there tend to be pockets of it around there tend to be pockets of it around there tend to be pockets of it around the world where there are similar people the world where there are similar people the world where there are similar people uh that are doing great work in whatever uh that are doing great work in whatever uh that are doing great work in whatever field you care about and it's really field you care about and it's really field you care about and it's really worth trying to go be be near them. worth trying to go be be near them. worth trying to go be be near them. Um and so you know we get criticized Um and so you know we get criticized Um and so you know we get criticized sometimes at YC for having people move sometimes at YC for having people move sometimes at YC for having people move to the Bay Area but bringing people to the Bay Area but bringing people to the Bay Area but bringing people together that are interested in this together that are interested in this together that are interested in this similar thing of startups I think has similar thing of startups I think has similar thing of startups I think has been really valuable for for a lot of been really valuable for for a lot of been really valuable for for a lot of people. I think another thing that I people. I think another thing that I people. I think another thing that I have learned is that um whenever I've have learned is that um whenever I've have learned is that um whenever I've helped people for for no immediate helped people for for no immediate helped people for for no immediate benefit uh and with no intention of ever benefit uh and with no intention of ever benefit uh and with no intention of ever getting a benefit at all uh time and getting a benefit at all uh time and getting a benefit at all uh time and again in my career it has really later again in my career it has really later again in my career it has really later benefited me a lot. So I think uh you at benefited me a lot. So I think uh you at benefited me a lot. So I think uh you at some point often get to a point in your some point often get to a point in your some point often get to a point in your career where you're you're limited by career where you're you're limited by career where you're you're limited by how many good people you know and and how many good people you know and and how many good people you know and and how many of those you can work with or how many of those you can work with or how many of those you can work with or get to do things that uh uh together and get to do things that uh uh together and get to do things that uh uh together and so find just helping a lot of people and so find just helping a lot of people and so find just helping a lot of people and spending a lot of time with a lot of spending a lot of time with a lot of spending a lot of time with a lot of people uh has benefited me you know people uh has benefited me you know people uh has benefited me you know years after I've really helped someone years after I've really helped someone years after I've really helped someone for no reason I get to invest in their for no reason I get to invest in their for no reason I get to invest in their startup and it goes on to be a huge startup and it goes on to be a huge startup and it goes on to be a huge success uh or we're able to like work on success uh or we're able to like work on success uh or we're able to like work on open AI together any number of things um open AI together any number of things um open AI together any number of things um I think just trying to help a lot of I think just trying to help a lot of I think just trying to help a lot of people and out of that seeing who is people and out of that seeing who is people and out of that seeing who is really impressive and who gets things really impressive and who gets things really impressive and who gets things done uh is helpful. Um and in terms of done uh is helpful. Um and in terms of done uh is helpful. Um and in terms of how to actually get things done. So how to actually get things done. So how to actually get things done. So you've selected what to work on, who to you've selected what to work on, who to you've selected what to work on, who to work on it with. You think maybe you work on it with. You think maybe you work on it with. You think maybe you found your tribe and then kind of now found your tribe and then kind of now found your tribe and then kind of now what what are what are sort of the best what what are what are sort of the best what what are what are sort of the best ways to actually accomplish big things? ways to actually accomplish big things? ways to actually accomplish big things? Well, there's a Charlie Rose quote on Well, there's a Charlie Rose quote on Well, there's a Charlie Rose quote on this uh that I've always loved and I've this uh that I've always loved and I've this uh that I've always loved and I've since added one more element to it, but since added one more element to it, but since added one more element to it, but the quote is that the way things get the quote is that the way things get the quote is that the way things get done in the world are through a done in the world are through a done in the world are through a combination of focus and personal combination of focus and personal combination of focus and personal connection. And the additional point I connection. And the additional point I connection. And the additional point I would make uh after having thought about would make uh after having thought about would make uh after having thought about it for a while is that the third factor it for a while is that the third factor it for a while is that the third factor is self-belief. Um it's you really have is self-belief. Um it's you really have is self-belief. Um it's you really have to have a deep-seated personal to have a deep-seated personal to have a deep-seated personal conviction that this thing you're going conviction that this thing you're going conviction that this thing you're going to do that a lot of people say is really to do that a lot of people say is really to do that a lot of people say is really stupid is going to work and going to be stupid is going to work and going to be stupid is going to work and going to be important. But I think those three important. But I think those three important. But I think those three things focus personal connections and things focus personal connections and things focus personal connections and self-belief um in my experience are are self-belief um in my experience are are self-belief um in my experience are are how things get done in the world. how things get done in the world. how things get done in the world. So since you were, you know, as long as, So since you were, you know, as long as, So since you were, you know, as long as, you know, you've you've grown up and you know, you've you've grown up and you know, you've you've grown up and certainly through your 20s and now, um, certainly through your 20s and now, um, certainly through your 20s and now, um, you've worked incredibly hard and I know you've worked incredibly hard and I know you've worked incredibly hard and I know that a lot of the people around you have that a lot of the people around you have that a lot of the people around you have worked very hard. Uh, what's sort of the worked very hard. Uh, what's sort of the worked very hard. Uh, what's sort of the advice or the way that you think about advice or the way that you think about advice or the way that you think about your work life balance in your 20s and your work life balance in your 20s and your work life balance in your 20s and what do you recommend to people who want what do you recommend to people who want what do you recommend to people who want to do these things and also want to, you to do these things and also want to, you to do these things and also want to, you know, experience their 20s? Well, I know, experience their 20s? Well, I know, experience their 20s? Well, I don't think I work as hard as a lot of don't think I work as hard as a lot of don't think I work as hard as a lot of people. I think I do work pretty hard. people. I think I do work pretty hard. people. I think I do work pretty hard. Um, but I I'd say it's really I think Um, but I I'd say it's really I think Um, but I I'd say it's really I think it's compound interest is a good it's compound interest is a good it's compound interest is a good metaphor here. Um, if you work really metaphor here. Um, if you work really metaphor here. Um, if you work really hard at the beginning of your career, hard at the beginning of your career, hard at the beginning of your career, uh, and you get a little bit better at uh, and you get a little bit better at uh, and you get a little bit better at what you do every day, every week, every what you do every day, every week, every what you do every day, every week, every year, and you learn more and you meet year, and you learn more and you meet year, and you learn more and you meet more people and you just get more done, more people and you just get more done, more people and you just get more done, um, there's a compound effect and it's um, there's a compound effect and it's um, there's a compound effect and it's far better to put that time in at the far better to put that time in at the far better to put that time in at the beginning of your career uh than at the beginning of your career uh than at the beginning of your career uh than at the end because if you do it at the end because if you do it at the end because if you do it at the beginning, you get to benefit from it, beginning, you get to benefit from it, beginning, you get to benefit from it, uh, you know, for the rest of the time uh, you know, for the rest of the time uh, you know, for the rest of the time you work. So, You know, one thing I you work. So, You know, one thing I you work. So, You know, one thing I always try to do is like meet every always try to do is like meet every always try to do is like meet every person I had time for, go to every, you person I had time for, go to every, you person I had time for, go to every, you know, go to everything I could. Um, and know, go to everything I could. Um, and know, go to everything I could. Um, and just like spend a little bit more time just like spend a little bit more time just like spend a little bit more time trying to learn and get better at what I trying to learn and get better at what I trying to learn and get better at what I did what I do. And I think that is did what I do. And I think that is did what I do. And I think that is really valuable. Um, the, you know, the really valuable. Um, the, you know, the really valuable. Um, the, you know, the beginning of your career, I I think in beginning of your career, I I think in beginning of your career, I I think in terms of setting the trajectory that the terms of setting the trajectory that the terms of setting the trajectory that the rest of your career follows is the most rest of your career follows is the most rest of your career follows is the most valuable time. And so obviously you valuable time. And so obviously you valuable time. And so obviously you don't want to work all the time because don't want to work all the time because don't want to work all the time because your 20s are your 20s, but I do think your 20s are your 20s, but I do think your 20s are your 20s, but I do think you want to work harder than most people you want to work harder than most people you want to work harder than most people think you should. And I think that if think you should. And I think that if think you should. And I think that if you do that, uh, you tend to benefit you do that, uh, you tend to benefit you do that, uh, you tend to benefit from it later. Life is super unfair. from it later. Life is super unfair. from it later. Life is super unfair. Sometimes you also just get unlucky. Uh, Sometimes you also just get unlucky. Uh, Sometimes you also just get unlucky. Uh, and and so all you can do is kind of and and so all you can do is kind of and and so all you can do is kind of maximize chances there. But I do think maximize chances there. But I do think maximize chances there. But I do think that working hard early in your career that working hard early in your career that working hard early in your career to get the leverage and the compounding to get the leverage and the compounding to get the leverage and the compounding effects is underrated and one of the effects is underrated and one of the effects is underrated and one of the most valuable pieces of advice that I most valuable pieces of advice that I most valuable pieces of advice that I never got. And so going into that idea never got. And so going into that idea never got. And so going into that idea of these early years being particularly of these early years being particularly of these early years being particularly valuable um and working very hard on valuable um and working very hard on valuable um and working very hard on things. How do you decide when you've things. How do you decide when you've things. How do you decide when you've worked on something long enough and it's worked on something long enough and it's worked on something long enough and it's time to call it quits or when you've time to call it quits or when you've time to call it quits or when you've worked on it for four years and you're worked on it for four years and you're worked on it for four years and you're just about to have that breakthrough? Um just about to have that breakthrough? Um just about to have that breakthrough? Um h how do you make that distinction? h how do you make that distinction? h how do you make that distinction? Yeah, this this is really hard. Um, Yeah, this this is really hard. Um, Yeah, this this is really hard. Um, knowing when to quit and knowing when to knowing when to quit and knowing when to knowing when to quit and knowing when to give up on something give up on something give up on something is there's no perfect answer to that. U, is there's no perfect answer to that. U, is there's no perfect answer to that. U, but it's really challenging to even get but it's really challenging to even get but it's really challenging to even get that approximately correct. I think most that approximately correct. I think most that approximately correct. I think most people give up on things way too early. people give up on things way too early. people give up on things way too early. So, the mistake that most people make is So, the mistake that most people make is So, the mistake that most people make is they try something, it does not they try something, it does not they try something, it does not immediately work. You see this immediately work. You see this immediately work. You see this particularly in young entrepreneurs. It particularly in young entrepreneurs. It particularly in young entrepreneurs. It does not immediately work. After seven does not immediately work. After seven does not immediately work. After seven weeks, they say, you know what, I tried weeks, they say, you know what, I tried weeks, they say, you know what, I tried this thing. it's just not meant to be this thing. it's just not meant to be this thing. it's just not meant to be and I have too many other projects and and I have too many other projects and and I have too many other projects and so they immediately give up and you kind so they immediately give up and you kind so they immediately give up and you kind of, you know, the satirical version of of, you know, the satirical version of of, you know, the satirical version of this is people that are 23 and have this is people that are 23 and have this is people that are 23 and have started 14 startups um because they give started 14 startups um because they give started 14 startups um because they give up on everyone before it could ever up on everyone before it could ever up on everyone before it could ever possibly be successful. These things are possibly be successful. These things are possibly be successful. These things are really hard. Um they take a very long really hard. Um they take a very long really hard. Um they take a very long time. There are a lot of critics. There time. There are a lot of critics. There time. There are a lot of critics. There are a lot of people who say this thing are a lot of people who say this thing are a lot of people who say this thing sucks. It's going to fail. It's really sucks. It's going to fail. It's really sucks. It's going to fail. It's really stupid. And then also there's like what stupid. And then also there's like what stupid. And then also there's like what at YC we call the trough of sorrow where at YC we call the trough of sorrow where at YC we call the trough of sorrow where no one even bothers to say it sucks no one even bothers to say it sucks no one even bothers to say it sucks because no one cares at all. Um and that because no one cares at all. Um and that because no one cares at all. Um and that is at least is demotivating. Uh most of is at least is demotivating. Uh most of is at least is demotivating. Uh most of the founders that I have spent a lot of the founders that I have spent a lot of the founders that I have spent a lot of time with that have gone on to be super time with that have gone on to be super time with that have gone on to be super successful spent a very long time on successful spent a very long time on successful spent a very long time on their idea uh when a lot of other people their idea uh when a lot of other people their idea uh when a lot of other people would have given up. And either people would have given up. And either people would have given up. And either people said it sucks or people said nothing at said it sucks or people said nothing at said it sucks or people said nothing at all. And a framework that I have for all. And a framework that I have for all. And a framework that I have for when to give up and when to keep working when to give up and when to keep working when to give up and when to keep working is it should be an internal not an is it should be an internal not an is it should be an internal not an external decision. um if people aren't external decision. um if people aren't external decision. um if people aren't using it or if people are saying it's using it or if people are saying it's using it or if people are saying it's bad, that alone is not a reason to give bad, that alone is not a reason to give bad, that alone is not a reason to give up. You want to pay some attention to up. You want to pay some attention to up. You want to pay some attention to that. They might be right. Um but I that. They might be right. Um but I that. They might be right. Um but I think the best entrepreneurs I know uh think the best entrepreneurs I know uh think the best entrepreneurs I know uh they make an internal decision about they make an internal decision about they make an internal decision about when to give up or when to keep working when to give up or when to keep working when to give up or when to keep working on something. Uh it's basically when you on something. Uh it's basically when you on something. Uh it's basically when you have run out of ideas and something is have run out of ideas and something is have run out of ideas and something is not working, then it's a good time to not working, then it's a good time to not working, then it's a good time to stop. stop. stop. And so into this idea that you need a And so into this idea that you need a And so into this idea that you need a long time to do anything important, long time to do anything important, long time to do anything important, what's the source of motivation for what's the source of motivation for what's the source of motivation for people? Like what should people be people? Like what should people be people? Like what should people be looking to find to be inspired or to looking to find to be inspired or to looking to find to be inspired or to keep going on these ideas for a long keep going on these ideas for a long keep going on these ideas for a long period of time? Um I yeah I think if you don't actually Um I yeah I think if you don't actually Um I yeah I think if you don't actually believe what you're doing is really believe what you're doing is really believe what you're doing is really important and if you don't derive important and if you don't derive important and if you don't derive satisfaction from what you're doing then satisfaction from what you're doing then satisfaction from what you're doing then you will not be able to sustain all of you will not be able to sustain all of you will not be able to sustain all of the bad things that happen and the the bad things that happen and the the bad things that happen and the incredibly long period of time that the incredibly long period of time that the incredibly long period of time that the bad things happen over. And so the the bad things happen over. And so the the bad things happen over. And so the the only motivation that I have seen work only motivation that I have seen work only motivation that I have seen work for people uh over a long period of time for people uh over a long period of time for people uh over a long period of time is enjoyment in what they're doing and is enjoyment in what they're doing and is enjoyment in what they're doing and an intense belief that it matters and an intense belief that it matters and an intense belief that it matters and ideally liking the people that they go ideally liking the people that they go ideally liking the people that they go to work with every day. Um but the I to work with every day. Um but the I to work with every day. Um but the I think the reasons that a lot of people think the reasons that a lot of people think the reasons that a lot of people and by the way it's totally cool when and by the way it's totally cool when and by the way it's totally cool when people start off saying well I want to people start off saying well I want to people start off saying well I want to make money or I want to be famous. I make money or I want to be famous. I make money or I want to be famous. I think a lot of people start that way and think a lot of people start that way and think a lot of people start that way and they don't like to admit it. But pretty they don't like to admit it. But pretty they don't like to admit it. But pretty quickly uh or at least in the first few quickly uh or at least in the first few quickly uh or at least in the first few years I think a lot of people find a years I think a lot of people find a years I think a lot of people find a deeper mission for why they do what they deeper mission for why they do what they deeper mission for why they do what they do and that that drives them then for do and that that drives them then for do and that that drives them then for the rest of the time they work. Have you the rest of the time they work. Have you the rest of the time they work. Have you noticed a change in what motivates you noticed a change in what motivates you noticed a change in what motivates you over the last say 10 or 12 years? over the last say 10 or 12 years? over the last say 10 or 12 years? Um, yeah. I mean, I think I at this Um, yeah. I mean, I think I at this Um, yeah. I mean, I think I at this point I am sort of only interested in point I am sort of only interested in point I am sort of only interested in things that I find sort of interesting things that I find sort of interesting things that I find sort of interesting and important. And early on, like a lot and important. And early on, like a lot and important. And early on, like a lot of other people, I think I was like, of other people, I think I was like, of other people, I think I was like, well, I want to make money. I want to, well, I want to make money. I want to, well, I want to make money. I want to, you know, like be in the press or you know, like be in the press or you know, like be in the press or whatever else. Uh, and I wouldn't say whatever else. Uh, and I wouldn't say whatever else. Uh, and I wouldn't say that doesn't motivate me at all, but that doesn't motivate me at all, but that doesn't motivate me at all, but it's honestly not a big factor at this it's honestly not a big factor at this it's honestly not a big factor at this point. Yeah. Um, I just sort of like point. Yeah. Um, I just sort of like point. Yeah. Um, I just sort of like there's a set of things that I think there's a set of things that I think there's a set of things that I think are important. uh and I want to work on are important. uh and I want to work on are important. uh and I want to work on this. I I think another point about this. I I think another point about this. I I think another point about motivation that is that people don't motivation that is that people don't motivation that is that people don't talk about enough um is related to talk about enough um is related to talk about enough um is related to burnout. So I was told and I thought for burnout. So I was told and I thought for burnout. So I was told and I thought for a long time that you get burned out from a long time that you get burned out from a long time that you get burned out from working too working too working too hard. And at least in my own experience, hard. And at least in my own experience, hard. And at least in my own experience, what I found is that burnout actually what I found is that burnout actually what I found is that burnout actually comes from um failing and things not comes from um failing and things not comes from um failing and things not working. Momentum is really energizing. working. Momentum is really energizing. working. Momentum is really energizing. The lack of momentum is super draining. The lack of momentum is super draining. The lack of momentum is super draining. And I find that I have infinite energy And I find that I have infinite energy And I find that I have infinite energy to work on things that I find to work on things that I find to work on things that I find interesting and that are working and interesting and that are working and interesting and that are working and almost none to work on things that I almost none to work on things that I almost none to work on things that I either don't find interesting or aren't either don't find interesting or aren't either don't find interesting or aren't working. And so I think you see a lot of working. And so I think you see a lot of working. And so I think you see a lot of founders try something and fail and founders try something and fail and founders try something and fail and assume that they just can't work hard assume that they just can't work hard assume that they just can't work hard enough or don't have enough energy or enough or don't have enough energy or enough or don't have enough energy or passion or whatever. And that's actually passion or whatever. And that's actually passion or whatever. And that's actually not true. Uh it's just that that thing not true. Uh it's just that that thing not true. Uh it's just that that thing didn't work. And what you should do is didn't work. And what you should do is didn't work. And what you should do is shut that company down, go on vacation, shut that company down, go on vacation, shut that company down, go on vacation, and try again. And many people then find and try again. And many people then find and try again. And many people then find that oh actually when I'm doing this that oh actually when I'm doing this that oh actually when I'm doing this thing that I like and that is working. I thing that I like and that is working. I thing that I like and that is working. I have a huge amount of energy and I can have a huge amount of energy and I can have a huge amount of energy and I can get a lot of stuff done. Uh and so when get a lot of stuff done. Uh and so when get a lot of stuff done. Uh and so when you look at really successful people and you look at really successful people and you look at really successful people and say how do they get all those things say how do they get all those things say how do they get all those things done it's they have the benefit of done it's they have the benefit of done it's they have the benefit of momentum and momentum is energizing and momentum and momentum is energizing and momentum and momentum is energizing and the lack of momentum is really not the lack of momentum is really not the lack of momentum is really not energizing. energizing. energizing. Working on a lot of these problems that Working on a lot of these problems that Working on a lot of these problems that you know kind of inspire this type of you know kind of inspire this type of you know kind of inspire this type of motivation are sort of inherently motivation are sort of inherently motivation are sort of inherently riskier. Um, and I know, you know, this riskier. Um, and I know, you know, this riskier. Um, and I know, you know, this is something that we've talked about a is something that we've talked about a is something that we've talked about a lot about sort of the concept of taking lot about sort of the concept of taking lot about sort of the concept of taking risk in a career being a repeated game, risk in a career being a repeated game, risk in a career being a repeated game, but how do you how do you uh think about but how do you how do you uh think about but how do you how do you uh think about the idea of taking risks in your career the idea of taking risks in your career the idea of taking risks in your career and how should people think about it and how should people think about it and how should people think about it maybe differently than they currently maybe differently than they currently maybe differently than they currently do? Well, yeah, I think people have do? Well, yeah, I think people have do? Well, yeah, I think people have terrible risk calculus in general. Um, terrible risk calculus in general. Um, terrible risk calculus in general. Um, even people who try to be really good even people who try to be really good even people who try to be really good about this are bad at it. Um the answer about this are bad at it. Um the answer about this are bad at it. Um the answer I think is almost always uh a you're I think is almost always uh a you're I think is almost always uh a you're wrong about what is risky and what is wrong about what is risky and what is wrong about what is risky and what is not risky and b uh most people don't not risky and b uh most people don't not risky and b uh most people don't take enough risk especially early in take enough risk especially early in take enough risk especially early in your career being young and unknown and your career being young and unknown and your career being young and unknown and poor. Um that is actually a great gift poor. Um that is actually a great gift poor. Um that is actually a great gift in terms of the amount of risk you can in terms of the amount of risk you can in terms of the amount of risk you can take. Um and I think people don't take. Um and I think people don't take. Um and I think people don't capitalize on that enough. Uh I think capitalize on that enough. Uh I think capitalize on that enough. Uh I think what risk actually looks like is not what risk actually looks like is not what risk actually looks like is not doing something that you will then spend doing something that you will then spend doing something that you will then spend the rest of your life uh regretting. the rest of your life uh regretting. the rest of your life uh regretting. There's a quote, you know, people regret There's a quote, you know, people regret There's a quote, you know, people regret way more the things they didn't do than way more the things they didn't do than way more the things they didn't do than things that they did do. So if you things that they did do. So if you things that they did do. So if you really believe in something, there's an really believe in something, there's an really believe in something, there's an idea that you're super passionate about. idea that you're super passionate about. idea that you're super passionate about. Um you know, and you take a calculated Um you know, and you take a calculated Um you know, and you take a calculated risk to start a company realizing you risk to start a company realizing you risk to start a company realizing you may forgo a couple of years of steady may forgo a couple of years of steady may forgo a couple of years of steady income at another job um and whatever income at another job um and whatever income at another job um and whatever else. uh and you know maybe people call else. uh and you know maybe people call else. uh and you know maybe people call you a failure or whatever um that's a you a failure or whatever um that's a you a failure or whatever um that's a great risk to take and if you don't take great risk to take and if you don't take great risk to take and if you don't take that risk I think you have a very high that risk I think you have a very high that risk I think you have a very high chance that you end up regretting that. chance that you end up regretting that. chance that you end up regretting that. Um I think the wrong kind of risk to Um I think the wrong kind of risk to Um I think the wrong kind of risk to take is where people don't actually do take is where people don't actually do take is where people don't actually do things or don't commit to something things or don't commit to something things or don't commit to something because they don't want to fail and they because they don't want to fail and they because they don't want to fail and they overrate the risk of failure and the overrate the risk of failure and the overrate the risk of failure and the reputation damage or embarrassment or reputation damage or embarrassment or reputation damage or embarrassment or whatever. Um I think one really whatever. Um I think one really whatever. Um I think one really important thing to strive for uh in in important thing to strive for uh in in important thing to strive for uh in in your career is to be a doer not a your career is to be a doer not a your career is to be a doer not a talker. And the reason that people don't talker. And the reason that people don't talker. And the reason that people don't do stuff, one is it's hard and two is do stuff, one is it's hard and two is do stuff, one is it's hard and two is it's risky. And so you have these people it's risky. And so you have these people it's risky. And so you have these people that uh you know want to dabble in a that uh you know want to dabble in a that uh you know want to dabble in a bunch of different projects but never be bunch of different projects but never be bunch of different projects but never be all in on one. Uh and I think it's this all in on one. Uh and I think it's this all in on one. Uh and I think it's this combination of work and risk and it's combination of work and risk and it's combination of work and risk and it's you know I think that's really bad. I you know I think that's really bad. I you know I think that's really bad. I think history belongs to the doers and I think history belongs to the doers and I think history belongs to the doers and I think you should take a risk. Actually think you should take a risk. Actually think you should take a risk. Actually do something. Don't just sit around and do something. Don't just sit around and do something. Don't just sit around and talk and organize and bring together talk and organize and bring together talk and organize and bring together groups and go to thought leadership groups and go to thought leadership groups and go to thought leadership conferences and whatever it is these conferences and whatever it is these conferences and whatever it is these people spend their time on other than people spend their time on other than people spend their time on other than actually building something. Um and just actually building something. Um and just actually building something. Um and just take the risk of committing to what you take the risk of committing to what you take the risk of committing to what you you have conviction on. Yeah. And I you have conviction on. Yeah. And I you have conviction on. Yeah. And I think people also seem to have sort of think people also seem to have sort of think people also seem to have sort of the fear of being told no a lot and not the fear of being told no a lot and not the fear of being told no a lot and not asking for what they want. I'm sure asking for what they want. I'm sure asking for what they want. I'm sure that's something that you've encountered that's something that you've encountered that's something that you've encountered with people. Yeah. Um, this was one of with people. Yeah. Um, this was one of with people. Yeah. Um, this was one of the other things I learned, um, that I the other things I learned, um, that I the other things I learned, um, that I wish I had gotten advice on early in my wish I had gotten advice on early in my wish I had gotten advice on early in my career, uh, is ask for what you want. career, uh, is ask for what you want. career, uh, is ask for what you want. Um, you will get told no a lot, but Um, you will get told no a lot, but Um, you will get told no a lot, but sometimes it will work. And, and I think sometimes it will work. And, and I think sometimes it will work. And, and I think you see a lot of entrepreneurs shoot you see a lot of entrepreneurs shoot you see a lot of entrepreneurs shoot themselves in the foot because they themselves in the foot because they themselves in the foot because they don't ask that person to quit their job don't ask that person to quit their job don't ask that person to quit their job and come join them. They don't ask this and come join them. They don't ask this and come join them. They don't ask this big company to do a deal with them. Um, big company to do a deal with them. Um, big company to do a deal with them. Um, and they're just not aggressive enough. and they're just not aggressive enough. and they're just not aggressive enough. Uh, and I think Uh, and I think Uh, and I think you being willing to ask what you want you being willing to ask what you want you being willing to ask what you want and and be somewhat aggressive are and and be somewhat aggressive are and and be somewhat aggressive are really important characteristics of really important characteristics of really important characteristics of being an entrepreneur. People don't want being an entrepreneur. People don't want being an entrepreneur. People don't want to fail. Um, they don't want to be told to fail. Um, they don't want to be told to fail. Um, they don't want to be told no. Uh, they don't want to end up in no. Uh, they don't want to end up in no. Uh, they don't want to end up in some crisis. Um, another thing that I some crisis. Um, another thing that I some crisis. Um, another thing that I learned, and I I won't even say I wish learned, and I I won't even say I wish learned, and I I won't even say I wish someone told me this one because I don't someone told me this one because I don't someone told me this one because I don't think it's a lesson anyone can teach think it's a lesson anyone can teach think it's a lesson anyone can teach you. You have to just live through it, you. You have to just live through it, you. You have to just live through it, is that each crisis gets less scary than is that each crisis gets less scary than is that each crisis gets less scary than the one before it. um you're running a the one before it. um you're running a the one before it. um you're running a company now. I'm sure you've I hope company now. I'm sure you've I hope company now. I'm sure you've I hope you've noticed this by now. Um you there you've noticed this by now. Um you there you've noticed this by now. Um you there are a lot of things that really go wrong are a lot of things that really go wrong are a lot of things that really go wrong and they feel like company killing and they feel like company killing and they feel like company killing events and they feel like there's no way events and they feel like there's no way events and they feel like there's no way you're going to survive. Um because the you're going to survive. Um because the you're going to survive. Um because the crises are really bad. And the thing you crises are really bad. And the thing you crises are really bad. And the thing you learn is that you generally do survive learn is that you generally do survive learn is that you generally do survive these um and and that the world doesn't these um and and that the world doesn't these um and and that the world doesn't usually end. And even if in the moment usually end. And even if in the moment usually end. And even if in the moment something happens, you have no idea how something happens, you have no idea how something happens, you have no idea how you're going to get around it. you're going to get around it. you're going to get around it. um you eventually figure out a way and um you eventually figure out a way and um you eventually figure out a way and and because of that uh you know on the and because of that uh you know on the and because of that uh you know on the 19th major crisis you're like well I 19th major crisis you're like well I 19th major crisis you're like well I survived the first 18 I'll probably get survived the first 18 I'll probably get survived the first 18 I'll probably get through this one and you kind of just do through this one and you kind of just do through this one and you kind of just do definitely that rings true um so uh definitely that rings true um so uh definitely that rings true um so uh switching into a bit topic of uh sort of switching into a bit topic of uh sort of switching into a bit topic of uh sort of money and sort of the long-term view of money and sort of the long-term view of money and sort of the long-term view of it and how people can think about it it and how people can think about it it and how people can think about it most clearly. Um I'm actually going to most clearly. Um I'm actually going to most clearly. Um I'm actually going to start with a quick story uh that I think start with a quick story uh that I think start with a quick story uh that I think illustrates a bit of sort of your views. illustrates a bit of sort of your views. illustrates a bit of sort of your views. Um, this is from when we were very young Um, this is from when we were very young Um, this is from when we were very young and our grandma gave us each some stock. and our grandma gave us each some stock. and our grandma gave us each some stock. Oh, this is a good story. In a company. Oh, this is a good story. In a company. Oh, this is a good story. In a company. All right, you can tell this one. Okay. All right, you can tell this one. Okay. All right, you can tell this one. Okay. Uh, so she gave us each some stock in a Uh, so she gave us each some stock in a Uh, so she gave us each some stock in a company that she thought we would like. company that she thought we would like. company that she thought we would like. Um, and so as you like to point out, I Um, and so as you like to point out, I Um, and so as you like to point out, I was heavier as a child and one of the was heavier as a child and one of the was heavier as a child and one of the things I liked was Applebee's and you things I liked was Applebee's and you things I liked was Applebee's and you were hacking away on computers and one were hacking away on computers and one were hacking away on computers and one of the things you liked was Apple. And of the things you liked was Apple. And of the things you liked was Apple. And so we each got an equal amount of Apple so we each got an equal amount of Apple so we each got an equal amount of Apple and Applebee's. This is like 20 years and Applebee's. This is like 20 years and Applebee's. This is like 20 years ago. We were like 20 years ago. And I ago. We were like 20 years ago. And I ago. We were like 20 years ago. And I think neither of us has sold it. In think neither of us has sold it. In think neither of us has sold it. In fact, you nicely brought me my fact, you nicely brought me my fact, you nicely brought me my Applebee's stock back from St. Louis Applebee's stock back from St. Louis Applebee's stock back from St. Louis recently. um your stock certificates so recently. um your stock certificates so recently. um your stock certificates so long ago it was still paper certificates long ago it was still paper certificates long ago it was still paper certificates and I think inflation adjusted I've and I think inflation adjusted I've and I think inflation adjusted I've probably lost half my value there probably lost half my value there probably lost half my value there whereas I think your Apple has gone up whereas I think your Apple has gone up whereas I think your Apple has gone up something like I don't even want to something like I don't even want to something like I don't even want to think about it uh hundreds hundreds of think about it uh hundreds hundreds of think about it uh hundreds hundreds of yeah it's been a lot um how do you think yeah it's been a lot um how do you think yeah it's been a lot um how do you think about sort of the long-term willingness about sort of the long-term willingness about sort of the long-term willingness uh to hold on to things what are the uh to hold on to things what are the uh to hold on to things what are the advantages somebody has early in their advantages somebody has early in their advantages somebody has early in their career um how should people think about career um how should people think about career um how should people think about money when they're young yeah you know I money when they're young yeah you know I money when they're young yeah you know I still have those uh Apple shares marked still have those uh Apple shares marked still have those uh Apple shares marked in my brokerage account as grandma's in my brokerage account as grandma's in my brokerage account as grandma's birthday apple shares if I ever sold one birthday apple shares if I ever sold one birthday apple shares if I ever sold one no I'm good. I'm gonna keep them. I no I'm good. I'm gonna keep them. I no I'm good. I'm gonna keep them. I should benchmark them against should benchmark them against should benchmark them against Applebee's. Um, so I I think that one of Applebee's. Um, so I I think that one of Applebee's. Um, so I I think that one of the few arbitrage opportunities left in the few arbitrage opportunities left in the few arbitrage opportunities left in the market is time. I think we have the market is time. I think we have the market is time. I think we have gotten really good at high frequency gotten really good at high frequency gotten really good at high frequency trading. Um, we have gotten really good trading. Um, we have gotten really good trading. Um, we have gotten really good at the price of things and we've gotten at the price of things and we've gotten at the price of things and we've gotten worse at the long-term value. worse at the long-term value. worse at the long-term value. And I I don't think you can go beat the And I I don't think you can go beat the And I I don't think you can go beat the market in a lot of ways. Um, but the one market in a lot of ways. Um, but the one market in a lot of ways. Um, but the one way I do is is by making a long-term way I do is is by making a long-term way I do is is by making a long-term commitment to something. I think commitment to something. I think commitment to something. I think that I my new belief on how long I that I my new belief on how long I that I my new belief on how long I should hold stock in the best companies should hold stock in the best companies should hold stock in the best companies I invest in is forever. Um, and I think, I invest in is forever. Um, and I think, I invest in is forever. Um, and I think, you know, in a world where people are you know, in a world where people are you know, in a world where people are increasingly focused on the tick and the increasingly focused on the tick and the increasingly focused on the tick and the quarterly earning cycle, you should try quarterly earning cycle, you should try quarterly earning cycle, you should try and go in the other direction. And this and go in the other direction. And this and go in the other direction. And this is a great way to generate value and is a great way to generate value and is a great way to generate value and wealth. Uh and and so I think that when wealth. Uh and and so I think that when wealth. Uh and and so I think that when you're thinking about a startup, uh it's you're thinking about a startup, uh it's you're thinking about a startup, uh it's really worthwhile to think about really worthwhile to think about really worthwhile to think about something you're willing to make a very something you're willing to make a very something you're willing to make a very long-term commitment to because that is long-term commitment to because that is long-term commitment to because that is where the current void in the market is. where the current void in the market is. where the current void in the market is. Um I I Um I I Um I I think you know you get paid as a founder think you know you get paid as a founder think you know you get paid as a founder for the wealth you create for other for the wealth you create for other for the wealth you create for other people. So there's this view of the people. So there's this view of the people. So there's this view of the world that um business is all about like world that um business is all about like world that um business is all about like trying to steal money and sometimes trying to steal money and sometimes trying to steal money and sometimes that's true but but the the best that's true but but the the best that's true but but the the best companies just create massive amounts of companies just create massive amounts of companies just create massive amounts of value for the world and then they value for the world and then they value for the world and then they capture some of that for themselves but capture some of that for themselves but capture some of that for themselves but they capture far less than they create they capture far less than they create they capture far less than they create and they do it over a very long period and they do it over a very long period and they do it over a very long period of time. So if you're going to be one of of time. So if you're going to be one of of time. So if you're going to be one of those companies um I think you want to those companies um I think you want to those companies um I think you want to make a super long-term commitment to make a super long-term commitment to make a super long-term commitment to yourself and others that are going to yourself and others that are going to yourself and others that are going to work on it with you that this is going work on it with you that this is going work on it with you that this is going to take a long time. Um, but it is worth to take a long time. Um, but it is worth to take a long time. Um, but it is worth waiting because you will make far more waiting because you will make far more waiting because you will make far more money over the long horizon um by doing money over the long horizon um by doing money over the long horizon um by doing this company really well than a bunch of this company really well than a bunch of this company really well than a bunch of short-term things along the way. So, how short-term things along the way. So, how short-term things along the way. So, how much do you think people should have much do you think people should have much do you think people should have strong opinions about things versus strong opinions about things versus strong opinions about things versus putting something into the world, putting something into the world, putting something into the world, iterating and sort of finding out iterating and sort of finding out iterating and sort of finding out whatever works and going with that? I whatever works and going with that? I whatever works and going with that? I think you want a combination of those think you want a combination of those think you want a combination of those two things. You want want to have a two things. You want want to have a two things. You want want to have a strong opinion and then be flexible strong opinion and then be flexible strong opinion and then be flexible about the details. So the thing I don't about the details. So the thing I don't about the details. So the thing I don't think works that often are the startups think works that often are the startups think works that often are the startups on their 11th pivot that are totally on their 11th pivot that are totally on their 11th pivot that are totally unrelated. Um but I put a big difference unrelated. Um but I put a big difference unrelated. Um but I put a big difference between refinement and pivoting. So when between refinement and pivoting. So when between refinement and pivoting. So when you start with a strong belief um you you start with a strong belief um you you start with a strong belief um you know we should have a social graph and know we should have a social graph and know we should have a social graph and an online directory um that is Facebook an online directory um that is Facebook an online directory um that is Facebook has stayed pretty similar to that has stayed pretty similar to that has stayed pretty similar to that although the product itself has changed although the product itself has changed although the product itself has changed a lot along the way and I think that's a lot along the way and I think that's a lot along the way and I think that's really good that is a strong idea um really good that is a strong idea um really good that is a strong idea um with flexibility in the implementation with flexibility in the implementation with flexibility in the implementation and I think that's much better than the and I think that's much better than the and I think that's much better than the we're just going to keep trying random we're just going to keep trying random we're just going to keep trying random ideas because we want to have a startup. ideas because we want to have a startup. ideas because we want to have a startup. Um I I think strong strong opinions Um I I think strong strong opinions Um I I think strong strong opinions about the future are really important about the future are really important about the future are really important and I think uh one of the things that I and I think uh one of the things that I and I think uh one of the things that I have noticed among the most interesting have noticed among the most interesting have noticed among the most interesting the most successful people that I spend the most successful people that I spend the most successful people that I spend time with is that they have strong time with is that they have strong time with is that they have strong opinions strongly held about the future. opinions strongly held about the future. opinions strongly held about the future. They are willing to be convinced with They are willing to be convinced with They are willing to be convinced with new data that they are wrong but the bar new data that they are wrong but the bar new data that they are wrong but the bar for that is fairly high. And this idea for that is fairly high. And this idea for that is fairly high. And this idea that the future is fundamentally that the future is fundamentally that the future is fundamentally unknowable. I I've never liked actually unknowable. I I've never liked actually unknowable. I I've never liked actually I I remember pretty clearly this time I I remember pretty clearly this time I I remember pretty clearly this time where I was sort of like spouting advice where I was sort of like spouting advice where I was sort of like spouting advice someone else had given me in high school someone else had given me in high school someone else had given me in high school or college about how you in you know you or college about how you in you know you or college about how you in you know you need to diversify in investing because need to diversify in investing because need to diversify in investing because the world is unknown, unknowable and so the world is unknown, unknowable and so the world is unknown, unknowable and so all you can do is have the most balanced all you can do is have the most balanced all you can do is have the most balanced possible portfolio. And I remember that possible portfolio. And I remember that possible portfolio. And I remember that I was saying that out loud. Someone else I was saying that out loud. Someone else I was saying that out loud. Someone else had said it to me probably grandma. Uh had said it to me probably grandma. Uh had said it to me probably grandma. Uh and and I realized that I really didn't and and I realized that I really didn't and and I realized that I really didn't agree with that at all. Um because I had agree with that at all. Um because I had agree with that at all. Um because I had strong opinions and then I knew that strong opinions and then I knew that strong opinions and then I knew that there were some companies whose stock there were some companies whose stock there were some companies whose stock I'd rather own than others. And I knew I'd rather own than others. And I knew I'd rather own than others. And I knew that I would rather uh like own stock that I would rather uh like own stock that I would rather uh like own stock than own bonds. Um because I thought than own bonds. Um because I thought than own bonds. Um because I thought technology was going to be worth a lot technology was going to be worth a lot technology was going to be worth a lot more. I have different ideas today about more. I have different ideas today about more. I have different ideas today about the next 10 or 20 years. Um but I think the next 10 or 20 years. Um but I think the next 10 or 20 years. Um but I think it's good. It's not only okay, it's good it's good. It's not only okay, it's good it's good. It's not only okay, it's good to have strong ideas about the future. to have strong ideas about the future. to have strong ideas about the future. And it is okay to not be super And it is okay to not be super And it is okay to not be super diversified in your investment portfolio diversified in your investment portfolio diversified in your investment portfolio or your career or your life. And then or your career or your life. And then or your career or your life. And then the final question is if you could leave the final question is if you could leave the final question is if you could leave young people who want to have a big young people who want to have a big young people who want to have a big impact with one or two pieces of advice, impact with one or two pieces of advice, impact with one or two pieces of advice, what would you tell them? Well, I I what would you tell them? Well, I I what would you tell them? Well, I I don't want to give people a specific don't want to give people a specific don't want to give people a specific field to go work on. Um because I think field to go work on. Um because I think field to go work on. Um because I think the whole idea is that people need to the whole idea is that people need to the whole idea is that people need to figure out themselves what they believe figure out themselves what they believe figure out themselves what they believe in and what they think and what they in and what they think and what they in and what they think and what they believe is high impact to work on for believe is high impact to work on for believe is high impact to work on for the future. Um so what I will say the future. Um so what I will say the future. Um so what I will say instead is it is really important to instead is it is really important to instead is it is really important to actually think hard about where you actually think hard about where you actually think hard about where you think you can make the biggest think you can make the biggest think you can make the biggest contribution that you're good at and the contribution that you're good at and the contribution that you're good at and the world needs and that you enjoy and uh world needs and that you enjoy and uh world needs and that you enjoy and uh then go meet people to work with. go then go meet people to work with. go then go meet people to work with. go learn as much about that field as you learn as much about that field as you learn as much about that field as you can and then have the the courage of can and then have the the courage of can and then have the the courage of your convictions to actually take a risk your convictions to actually take a risk your convictions to actually take a risk and focus on it and and go do something and focus on it and and go do something and focus on it and and go do something there. Um, and that it's okay if you there. Um, and that it's okay if you there. Um, and that it's okay if you fail and if you do fail, you'll not be fail and if you do fail, you'll not be fail and if you do fail, you'll not be in much different of a place than you in much different of a place than you in much different of a place than you are today and you can go try the next are today and you can go try the next are today and you can go try the next thing. But it it's I think really thing. But it it's I think really thing. But it it's I think really important to be willing to go take a important to be willing to go take a important to be willing to go take a risk and make some amount of sacrifice risk and make some amount of sacrifice risk and make some amount of sacrifice to be able to try to impact the world in to be able to try to impact the world in to be able to try to impact the world in in some way that that you really care in some way that that you really care in some way that that you really care about. about. about. And I think the sooner you get to work And I think the sooner you get to work And I think the sooner you get to work on that, the better you'll you'll be. on that, the better you'll you'll be. on that, the better you'll you'll be. Awesome. All right. Well, Sam, thanks Awesome. All right. Well, Sam, thanks Awesome. All right. Well, Sam, thanks very much.
