Timestamp: 2025-06-03T21:00:39.258242
Title: The Secret Trading Signals LIVE With Rob FfOWssUSH0o
URL: https://youtube.com/live/FfOWssUSH0o?si=5_MM6ghkD01Y8z7M
Status: success
Duration: 1:59:03

Description:
好的，这是对提供文本的总结：

**总结大纲：**

1.  **交易的现实：**
    *   头寸交易（如 4 小时/日图）通常很慢，像“看油漆变干”，但也有极端波动时。交易者似乎总是抱怨波动或缺乏波动。
    *   一个重要提醒：大多数交易者亏损。
2.  **核心观点：策略与风险管理胜于系统与图表：**
    *   图表、指标（如移动平均线、RSI、MACD、成交量曲线）或交易系统本身不能让你赚钱。它们只是提供潜在的高概率入场点。
    *   不同券商/流动性提供者会导致图表（“弯曲的线条”）显示略微不同，这不是精确科学，这进一步证明系统不是盈利的根本。
    *   真正的盈利优势（“优势”）在于你的整体业务计划、交易策略和风险管理。
    *   频繁更换交易系统是“永无止境的厄运循环”，应坚持一个系统并专注于策略执行。
3.  **市场本质与 50/50 概念：**
    *   无论使用何种系统或图表，每一次交易入场本身都是 50/50 的盈亏概率。
    *   高胜率不等于盈利：即使赢了大多数交易，如果亏损单的金额远大于盈利单，最终仍会亏损。
    *   盈利的关键在于管理亏损（保持亏损单金额较小）和管理盈利（让盈利单赚得更多），而不是通过系统预测市场方向。
4.  **交易心理：**
    *   交易的真正难度在于心理，尤其是在用真实资金交易时。
    *   较低时间框架（如 5/15 分钟）交易可能成为“致命吸引力”，容易导致不耐烦，试图追回亏损，变成全职工作。
    *   较高时间框架交易需要更多耐心，但能帮助交易者“放手”，按计划交易。
    *   接受亏损是重要的心理层面。学习接受亏损，并客观地看待交易，而不是情感化。
    *   模拟账户、资金账户与真实账户的心理差异：模拟无风险，资金账户有部分风险（费用、回撤），真实账户风险最大，对心理挑战最高。资金账户是练习心理的好工具。
5.  **交易执行与技巧（保持简洁）：**
    *   等待蜡烛收盘是确认入场/出场信号的标准做法。
    *   理解蜡烛形态需结合市场背景，未定形态可能预示转向，不要逆势而为。
    *   避免分析麻痹：不要在图表上叠加过多指标或线条。保持图表简洁（如只用少量关键线条）。
    *   寻找入场点：可以在日图或更高时间框架绘制重要区域（支撑/阻力），然后在较低时间框架寻找确认。
    *   在趋势中（“锯齿形态”）寻找入场：最简单的方法是绘制趋势线/通道，并在趋势支撑买入，趋势阻力卖出（或反之），寻找至少三点触碰来确认趋势。
    *   交易模式：顺势交易、区间交易、逆势交易。市场只有涨跌两种方向，交易者寻找的是基于图表的微小“偏差”（bias）。
6.  **品种与市场环境：**
    *   各种交易品种（外汇、加密货币、指数、股票等）在技术分析层面本质相同，都可以用同样的策略交易，区别在于基本面。
    *   当前市场受不确定性影响，表现犹豫、盘整、缺乏波动。
    *   对加密货币持谨慎态度（认为它是“新鲜空气”），但承认其可交易性，通常只关注比特币，目前技术上看空。担心其潜在的系统性风险。

**核心观点总结：**

交易盈利的核心在于坚实的风险管理策略和业务计划，而非复杂的图表系统本身。

**总体框架：**

交易盈利基于有效的风险管理、强大的交易心理和简洁的技术执行，所有这些都需在理解市场基本 50/50 性质的前提下进行。

**概念图：**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    A["交易盈利 Profitability"]

    subgraph "核心支柱 Core Pillars"
        B["策略与风险管理 Strategy & Risk Management"]
        C["交易心理 Trading Psychology"]
    end

    subgraph "执行与工具 Execution & Tools"
        D["交易系统/图表 Systems/Charts"]
        E["交易执行/入场 Trade Execution/Entry"]
        F["时间框架 Time Frames"]
        G["亏损管理 Loss Management"]
        H["品种选择 Instrument Selection"]
    end

    subgraph "市场本质 Market Nature"
        I["50/50 概率 50/50 Probability"]
        J["市场环境/偏差 Market Env./Bias"]
    end

    B --> A
    C --> A
    D --> E
    E --> A
    F --> E
    F --> C
    G --> B
    G --> C
    I --> C
    I --> B
    J --> E
    H --> D

    B -- "包含 Contains" --> G
    C -- "影响 Impacts" --> E
    I -- "需理解 Must Understand" --> B
    D -- "工具 Tool For" --> E
    J -- "影响 Affects" --> E

    style A fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style B fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333
    style C fill:#FFFFCC,stroke:#333
    style D fill:#FFB6C1,stroke:#333
    style E fill:#D3D3D3,stroke:#333
    style F fill:#D3D3D3,stroke:#333
    style G fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333
    style H fill:#FFB6C1,stroke:#333
    style I fill:#F08080,stroke:#333
    style J fill:#F08080,stroke:#333
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
 you you hello ladies and gentlemen this is why I make videos this is why position trading is so difficult because it's like watching paint dry there's not really much going on is there it's really just going quiet we complain when there's volatility and we complain when there isn't volatility so we just always complain don't we hey guys welcome to the live show I am back don't forget most traders lose money if you're unsure you probably shouldn't be trading good to see you Shane good to have you on board they are some viewers at least there's somebody watching me this time not talking to no one got Shane here soon we'll have Kevin here and we'll have Elaine here and we'll have a few good old regulars on the 18 back on the show ready to watch and see what's going on next we did have a question the question would you carry for a point for me you know what I'll get to the question and a wee bit we'll have a look at that. We'll go through the question and we'll check it out see what's going on there let me just move my picture down to the side it's a cold rainy day in Cape Town today when I say cold it's not that bad I can survive it it's not the end of the world it's not freezing or anything don't live in Norway or Scotland or anything like that we live in Africa for heaven's sake so when we talk about cold but you guys it's like summer in some places oh goodness hi Mohammed I do believe you did leave me a comment question as well and I've actually answered it in a video that's gonna come out tomorrow for you so enjoy it as a whole big big reply there for you as well as I think I did reply on the comment as well but it's gonna help in a big way you know the whole strategy and the risk management and that sort of thing very helpful to a lot of people and then we've got Phillip good morning and of course yeah it's good to have you all right let's talk about the US 500 the S&P 500 as most of us know it you know it's funny how I grew up understanding it as the S&P 500 nothing else now there's all these fancy names different brokers have got different liquidity different people supplying them with their products and that so you get you get mismatches on the on the time frames and that and that kind of brings you an aha moment as well as to you know you're reading charts and you're reading everything into a chart everything into a system you'll see on tomorrow's where you are brought up an interesting point on a couple of guys that commented and you can see that people are still stuck on the system they haven't figured out that that's just the high probability trade and that at the end of the day you need to worry about the strategy. Because you know these squiggly lines on any given broker will change and if that is possible if these lines can change from broker to broker or from liquidity to liquidity or from place to place then clearly it's not an exact science even if you put a robot on it it's not an exact science because you've got two different things happening at the same time the candles closing at different times. All this does is it allows you psychology to feel confident in one way or another that you're gonna somehow have a win and you're going to somehow succeed with your trade it's like drawing a line in the sand it just makes you feel better that you're heading for a finish line or you starting at a starting point. You're not just in the middle of nowhere it's a bit like if you're running a track race 200 meter track race and they say to you just start anywhere you're not going to feel confident with that. But if you have a start line and you have a place and you know there's an end you feel confident with that and it's the high probability trade and a lot of people still haven't got around this they still haven't figured this out they still think that the system is what makes them the money they still think it's the win rate that makes them the money. And they still believe that somehow that this these squiggly lines are going to somehow pop up and do something for them the one guy actually commented then why do the pros use all this if it doesn't work if it's 5050 why do the big companies use these systems and they don't they actually don't companies don't trade like we do how can you as a retail trader compare yourself to these price these guys sitting big trading rooms they have each other to play off and they get information and you and I couldn't couldn't possibly dream of. And they they have control and they do things that they're allowed to do and not allowed to do and as I've said 100 times the most profitable company in the street. Only 120% of their trades and that's insanity by itself this goes to show this is not what makes you the money. You know the big pros and company big big big companies big pro traders they don't use stop plus because they're training with too large a big quantity. Their sole purpose in the market is I've told you that's what our sole purpose is is to look for search out liquidity on specific products and you know when you work in those big companies you know that they you're not allowed to just sit there and trade whatever you feel like I mean these these guys will walk in and say this is what we're buying today get out there and go and do it you know. It's a dream wall to think that the guys are sitting there trading and I like we are it's. They're not. They're working for a boss. As a delay and good to see you again good to have you on board again and what have you so anyway so if you see that video tomorrow. I've put it out. I'm getting out there already with regards to. The whole I'm trying to get across that the market is a 50 50 game because people believe that spiggly lines. Back then the money and it's not. It's the business plan and the strategy that's going to make you money at the end of the day. And if your strategy is to invest for 30 years and that's your strategy and go with that business plan and you know that's your strategy. You can use it if your strategy is to trade on five minute charts and. And do something with it then then do that but have a plan that goes with it. It's it's I still don't understand how. So many people still don't don't understand it they still. Keep on hopping on about the fact that the squiggly lines will make the money that and I think it might be done to the fact that people have gone on a course. And they've paid a lot of money for that course so much money for that course and they think well you know that. That that that they can't possibly believe that they've they've invested so much into it and then to find out that that's not what's actually going to make them the money. And they don't want to hear me saying that. Trading is not a casino that it's actually difficult and it's not easy to make money and. It takes time and they want to hear that you can get into trading and make money like this today you know that that's the problem I see that's the problem I see people want to make instant money. Oh good Danny good to see you glad to see you here. Right short euro US dollar what was my call on your US dollar today. I actually called it changed it around to a buy why did I change it around to a buy. Look I see the US 500 is still bullish it's still going up but it has sort of dropped below that. Sort of trend resistance there in the in the triangle I wanted to break to the upside euro US dollar. You can do a short chain very short term but extremely short term because if you look at this trend resistance it has now become a support. It's coming back to retest it when it retests it's going to go up and if you look from the other side. Just so that you can see it from the other side if you look for a short term on the other side. It is that's a very that's a terrible line isn't it. We try and make that yellow so you can just see it. If you look from the other side it's very much on the bullish on the bullish run here on the euro US dollar it hasn't broken to the downside it hasn't broken structure. I think short term it's coming back to retest and that's about it. At the end of the day. Let me make all of these yellow so we can see what's going on if I draw a line. The euro US dollar I'm kind of on the bullish end of the euro US dollar that's set being on the four hour watching paint dry. If you're on the five minute or something like that you might actually get definitely get a short in that area but just remember the overall. Picture is is is bullish at the end of the day. So just keep that in mind when you're trading last week's winner of the of the giveaway was Brett the two step skilled 10k challenge well done congratulations he he got his right then the question I got. Could you please clarify a point for me when you say you wait for the candle to close to confirm your entry. Do you wait for the four candle to close. Yeah, yeah, obviously yeah I do that on the one hour as well if I'm trading on the five minute if I'm trading on the day. I always wait for the candle to close to give me direction but what you'll find is if you for example trading on a weekly. You're not going to wait a week or if you're training on a on a daily it's already like watching paint dry so what you might do is drop a few time frames and see what it looks like. Maybe you can get a sniper entry you know look at it that way you don't have to sit and religiously wait for the four hour you can go back and see if the one hour is closing the 30 minutes closing and. And that's sort of going in that direction you can sort of change your plan to a one hour if you need to. But essentially if you're training for are you got to wait for for our candle to close. And do you care what bar is. Could it be an engulfing or a doji or just an inside bar it doesn't matter the bar name just the car so. No I don't care what bar is at all I I. It doesn't matter it can be anybody you want it to be. It can be an engulfing by can be a hammer can be a doji no matter what. But you have to put it into context as to where it is so if you see a doji or if you see an upside down hammer or a hammer candle or something like that something with a long tail. You've got to put that into context. As a beginner you might find that a little bit difficult because that takes experience and time you have to learn to get to know it. But if you see something like that don't ignore it. And you know if you see an undecided candle then you can be like that's going on the way if you see a doji normally a change in the market and if you're going against that. You probably it's like you're pushing against the waves so you don't want to be swimming upstream you want to be swimming downstream you want to be swimming worth the stream. If it doesn't look right go look for another trade go look for something else that's the easiest way to look at it. And if you see something like that in your trade and you're just not comfortable with it say well you know there's a doji or there's an engulfing candle or whatever. Maybe I should reconsider and in that case but then don't get yourself paralyzed in all these different systems because you can put 10 different systems on your chart. And you can paralyze yourself it's called analysis paralysis you paralyzed your own your own way of thinking and you end up not trading because of that. A random coding channel good to see you again as well. So we've got all the regulars on board here today which is fantastic it's always good to see you guys absolutely fantastic. Okay, and then you draw daily levels using a line chart then drop to the four hour and wait for the four and all. Okay, close to confirm rejection from that zone. If it's a bathroom support resistance trade yes. You always wait for the confirmation unless you like me and you get impatient and you take the trade early because you feel like it's going to go that way all trades are 50 50. So you feel like it's going to work out for you then take the chance and if it doesn't accept the fact that it doesn't. But yes, the general rule of thumb is wait for the candle to do its thing. Okay, a break and retest I must actually do a video on break and retest for you guys so you get a better picture of break and retest it's effectively when it breaks through a level. And then bounce and goes on the upside or downside. And if the candle close breaks the zone then you consider it setting up to be a break and retest set up yes. If it breaks the zone. But not if it breaks the zone and goes back into the zone on the same candle that not that's not a break. A break is when the candle closes outside the zone. Then it's breaking. Then you got to see if it's going to go up on come back and retest or what it's going to do you got to watch out for that. By the way, I appreciate solid gold advice and your sharing prices struggling trailer like me thanks God. So hopefully can you try can I try to can will come and watch this and if he doesn't maybe I'll tell him to come and just have a re look at the show because that will kind of answer his question I think in one way or another. Okay, so we're still in Brent is why as well Brent crude oil. I'm kind of married to Brent as you guys know at the moment because I just want this to go my way. I've traded it with I don't know three four times now. Hmm. In successful a couple of times not big time but it's it's been a couple of wins on it and there's been a couple of losses on it. No big deal. I'm waiting for the big run. So this time I'll put my stop loss reasonably far out and I've done that before as well. With a view to it going and I won't take profit at 71 I mean if it goes up here will move the take profit away because I just believe that oil should eventually go back up to 80. This is like real patience this is called really cool sitting on your hands and waiting for that trade. To play out. Ruben good to see you again back on the cards there we go. Markets are still very unsure of the environment because they keep changing things on a regular basis again. Every day something happens again. And the tariffs and now the relationship between China and America again. So that it's kind of got to the point where it's not even volatile anymore it's just like watching paint dry that nobody really knows whether they should buy or sell it. Kind of like everybody's just holding back and stopped and thinking what should I do next. So I just I'm just planning what I see and I'm still confident that the US 500 will go up so I'm just sitting on a trade there. I'm still confident the Brent will find its way back up so I'm sitting on a trade there. The far edge some I'm a little bit if he was at the moment but this Australian dollar Canadian dollar. I was looking at a long yesterday but didn't take it because it never broke up. It never went up. It went down. So now what I'm waiting for is for it to take this level at the bottom here. This demand of money and then we'll take the long from there but bearing in mind it's probably going to hit that resistance. So that's one trade we can look at. Is the dollar US dollar I'm looking at this same scenario as Australian dollar Canadian dollar coming down to take this money here that looks reasonable. Looks like something we can look at and grab. The Dax is undecided. Look here undecided candle there doesn't know if it wants to go up or go down and that's kind of the general sentiment in the market at the moment. Confusion. So that's what I'm seeing a lot of in the market a lot of confusion amongst some real season traders actually out there a lot of confusion going on. Today's trade of the day was Euro great British pound to the short side. And why did I choose the short side. I was waiting for that red candle to close which it has now done it's closed. The trade is available to us we can take this trade. It's sitting on a resistance here and resistance that if you draw straight line and there's a straight resistance in there. It's gone up into the resistance level seems to be lying in this trend. It's also been on a bearish trajectory up until this point sort of gone up to take this money and it looks like it wants to fall over and go down. So this looks like it might be a reasonable trade my concern with it was it had broken through a level here trend resistance pushing it to the upside. But the overall picture is it looks like it wants to go short, but we could also we could take this trade. But quite looks like it's on drugs. Well, yeah, it's crypto after all made all on drugs. And I think it's been a long time ago. And I think it's been a long time ago. And I think it's been a long time ago. And I think it's been a long time ago. And I think it's been a long time ago. And I think it's been a long time ago. And I think it's been a long time ago. And I think it's been a long time ago. And I think it's been a long time ago. And I think it's been a long time ago. And I think it's been a long time ago. And I think it's been a long time ago. Thought it more likely or something to say that, it's effectively futures. So futures, you can just it's the same thing, you know, you're basically trading the same way. Options. Yeah, it's it's an old way of training. Esenauer a guy who traded it in such a way that you were trade one long one short and he'd have a whole pattern in there so that no matter which way the trade played. at the end of the contract or whatever. But yeah, I don't trade there anymore. And that would mean me having an account for options and I don't anymore. So I don't trade with it. I don't know, I prefer contracts, contracts or more straightforward, it's like buy, sell, that sort of thing. There's a business of predicting the price three months down the line. But effectively when you're trading with contracts, when you're trading on leverage trading, you're all trading with futures anyway. It's really the same thing at the end of the day. But it's just that if you have a proper futures account, you're kind of buying a contract, predicting it and working the trade down. But it's an old-fashioned way of leverage trading that we used to trade in the old days, way back when I'm actually surprised that it's still around. So yeah, while you say it might be interesting, it might be, but then is it worth more while going into it, getting the account and I don't trade it? You know, it's all the same at the end of the day. It's all about the markets. Effectively, you just need a strategy. Whichever way. You know, trading options, futures, trading contracts, CFD's, charts, whatever. It still boils down to what I said at the beginning of this video and that is it's not about the charts. It's not about the win rate. It's about your strategy or your business plan for whatever you're trading so that you can take a profit off it at the end of the day. It really doesn't have a lot to do with anything else. So yeah, I don't know. It's once again, we're trying to follow a system or trying to follow a patent and the patent is not gonna make you the money. It's the strategy that's gonna make you the money at the end of the day. Let's put a short trade in on the Euro, Great British Fund. Where's the trading thing gone? Oh, it's up here now. So we'll put a sell trade in on this. And then stop loss 84, 700. And then take profit. Oh, that's quite a take profit. Hahaha. Hang on. Okay, take profit at 83, 600. See if this is gonna work out first of all. Yeah, probably will. Not 0.5 lots. And yeah, let's place a sell order on the Euro, Great British Fund. Any objections? No, okay. Righto, okay, here we go. So we're short on the Euro, Great British Fund on the account as well. I think we've got three trades open there now. Let me just check. Yeah, we've got three trades open there now. Yes, 500, Brent and Euro, Great British Fund. That's fine. We'll leave it at that for now. What do I think about the volume profile? Let me drink to that. You see the thing is, there's a whole number of indicators, a whole number of things that you can use to trade with. And as I say, you don't want to get analysis paralysis, obviously, with having too much on your charts. Now, the reason I don't often put the volume profile on my computer, you will see it on some of my charts, but as it gets in the way, anything gets in the way, I don't put stochastic on, I don't put RSI on, I don't put MACD on. I've traded with all of these things in the past. I've used them all in the past. I don't even put moving averages on anymore. I just can't be bothered. It doesn't make any difference to your trading. It honestly doesn't. So, yeah, what do I think of the volume profile? The volume profile is useful to you if you want to see if the move is valid or not. That's about it. That's what you should use volume for. If you see a vast move in the market, or you see a vast move in volume and the price isn't moving, it just gives you a hint as to what's going down. In other words, if you see a vast move in price and volume doesn't move, then it's not really a valid move and vice versa. That's about it for volume. That's what volume tells you. Volume tells you the liquidity, it tells you if the move is good or if the move is pretty worthless. Do you need that in your trading? For me not, it really, it doesn't make a hell of a difference to me if I am concerned about the move, if I feel like this thing's moving for no reason at all, the click of the button, I'll switch the volume on and just have a look, is there any volume here or not? Is there actually something moving this market or not? What's causing it to move? But yeah, it's a bit like, if you put the volume profile on and it helps you and you feel comfortable with it, that's great. But don't end up as a trader with four million lines on your chart because actually here, I don't trade with much on my chart. But if I open my gold chart, for example, I've already got too many lines on here and it drives me crazy, I don't have OCD, but this irritates me. I've got too many lines on here. Why do I have so many lines on here? And you see, and then I'll go and also, now that needs to come out, that doesn't need to be there. That's in the wrong place to start with, it needs to be down here. And then I'll go and redraw that in if I need to. That line I can leave because it is giving me a top and a bottom and I need these two lines in. But even that's too much for me. And then this is from the day, this is the support. I like all this extra stuff in here because it messes with my mind sometimes. I like to keep it simple. So yes, there's nothing wrong with using a volume indicators. There's different kinds of volume indicators. But volume really doesn't tell you enough to take a trade with. It just tells you if your trade is valid, that's all it does. Anyone's telling you different, then they've got some insane, wonderful system going. It's like all the others. But no, volume can't pick a trade for you. It can just tell you if the trade's good or bad. That's all it can tell you. Sir Lunchalot, good to see you again. Welcome on board. Here, guys, Rob, how was the May for you? Since I'm on the floor, I had the worst month ever. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, You better go back to the other time, friend and try that out because, yeah, I was actually saying at the beginning of the show that the trouble with trading for hour and day trade or trading on the day charts is it's like watching paint dry sometimes or it's extremely volatile, whichever way we're never happy. But I can tell you that trading on the five minute can make it difficult for you as well. But the trouble with trading on longer time frames is things take longer to play out. You have to be that much more patient with them. But yeah, if you're making more money on the lower time frames than you should be trading there, then you'll probably lose more money there too. So I don't know, you blow a card on the lower time frames. But yeah, it hasn't, selling May and go away played out, didn't play out, and it has been a pretty, pretty lackluster month. And I've seen, like I said at the beginning of the show, a lot of like really experienced traders that they're going scratching their heads wondering what's going on. And some of it's got to do with the indecision, the indecision of the policymakers in the background are causing a lot of strain in the markets because people just don't know which way to go. And I think it's come to the point now where everything is just going kind of quiet and the candles are getting smaller because people just aren't sure anymore of what's going to happen next because today we say it's going to do this and tomorrow we say it's going to do that. And then, you know, just nobody knows. I think it's kind of slowed things up. That normally can happen just before some excitement. So yeah, watch out for that. You know, like things can go heavily, pear-shaped on you very quickly. There you are, no. No, I actually haven't to be honest or to be fair. On the trading side, I haven't had a good year at all. On the investment side, marvellous, it's been great. Been absolutely stunning, to be honest with you. I'm a little bit concerned about the one news article with Google where they're talking about them having to sell Chrome and it could cause a big black-spawn event for Google because Google is part of my investments. But yeah, they Google after all. So they should be okay in the long run. You know, and then it's a bit like the Nvidia one. You know, I had that as well. And then it took a bit of a dive and it went up. The investment side, that's good. That's going pretty well. The trading side has been a bit tough this year. It's been a bit slow, but I really do put it down to, I'm not the only one. There's a lot of really experienced traders out there that have taken major losses actually, not even break-evens. And it has been a sort of strange trading environment. Let me not say tough. Let's say strange trading environment because you listen to the fundamentals with one ear and those fundamentals sort of give you advice. You know, they sway your psychology when you're trading. So you think, well, you know, the S&P 500 should be long now. And then they change their mind a few hours later. And you think, you know, why do they do that? And then the next day they change their mind again. And just when things are going well between China and America, the next day they all know, things aren't so good anymore. But it really is, it's kind of a tricky environment then. And the guys that are doing well on the five minutes might get away with that because it's quick in and out, in and out, but somewhere down the line, that's not going to pay off. That will catch you out as well. Because you're working on a different ball game. So, well, that's why I say the indicators you see, like you said, you know, waiting for the perfect entry that will never come. That's always the big issue. You know, you're waiting for that perfect entry that will never come. You saw just now this Euro-Great British pound. This is not the perfect entry. It's a good entry that I've taken. You know, I've got a lot of people who are going to come up with a great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great. I've taken, you know, if I was to put all these other indicators on here, I'd have analysis paralysis and I wouldn't take this trade. But now I've taken the trade with a view to, okay, you know, there's a red candle in there. It's it's it's it resistance. It's a 50-50. I mean, we all know it's a 50-50. I'm taking a short trade based on humans or creatures of habit. This has happened before. Maybe it'll happen again. Maybe not. If it doesn't, put my risk in place. And then I hope that it goes in my direction. And if it doesn't, I must accept that I'll take a loss. And that's the easiest way to trade. If you start overcomplicating it, it is just too many indicators, too much stuff on the charts. You know, I've been in traders' rooms where they've got 100 screens on the wall and each screen's got a million things going on in it. And and and somebody asks me something like, you know, what do you think of this one? And I look at it and I don't know what I'm looking at. I'm thinking I couldn't possibly tell you because this is just a mishmash of lines. It makes no sense to me. I prefer just having two or three screens and that's good enough for me. And I don't even need them to be fancy, to be perfectly honest with you. I like them to be big because I'm old and, you know, I don't need people's eyes and shit like that. But no, I don't need a million curved screens for the wall and stuff. Yeah, well, Boots got a nice one. He's like wrapping around him and whatnot, but no, I don't need it. I'm comfortable with basics. I can actually take a laptop out into the bush who I go on holiday and trade off a laptop. I'm happy with that. I don't need hundreds of screens around me. I do have them, but what for? I need them. Now, I did tidy the desk up a little bit, big desk. Looks a bit better than it usually does. Ha ha ha. Okay, so. GBP, JP Wild, have a look now. Uh, GPP, JPY. I survey other trading websites and everyone is saying it's a very difficult time in the markets. I give it a try on the four hour. I want the freedom, ha, but the 15 minute glued me on the screen. You see, that's the impatience of it, but what I would say is some people are made for lower time frame. Some people, the general psychology and makeup is made for trading on a five minute or a 15 minute chart. You must remember that patience plays a big thing into this. But eventually you get over that impatience and it depends on your personality as well. Maybe you just slow down in life or whatever. You want more relaxation. You've made the money. You're not desperate to try and make more. So you're kind of just like, you know, we'll play it slow. I don't know what it is, but it's the psychology of it. So particularly when you're younger, you prefer to trade on those live time frames, which is the attraction towards it. But the trouble with that attraction is it's a fatal attraction in most cases. And that's where the problem comes in. And when I say most cases, I'm not joking. In most cases, it is a fatal attraction. You go wrong. Hmm. What did we say, GPP, JPY. And I've got it here somewhere. Okay, let's have a look showing. Let me take all this old stuff out. Bean bean bean bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum. Let's have a look. Okay, GPP, JPY. At. Firstly, let me move it up to the day chart. Oh, it's in a range, guys. It's in a full on range. Let me just put it on a line chart. Let's get a better picture of it here. Bom bom bom bom bom bom bom bom bom bom bom bom bom. I think maybe we need to just I think that's fine, actually. I'm actually going to kind of leave it around this area. But it is in a range. It could skip those to. Interesting this. Quite a quite a wide range, 200, 184. Let's just take it back down to the four. Oh, let's put it back on the candles. And now you see a range. So you're in that range. Okay. So you know what a range is, guys. Now what I'm seeing is a double top here. So we can add that in as well as a double top right there. But you've got your main resistance and you've got this double top resistance here. It's bounced off that it's going short. What you've got to look for here, guys, is what I would do here is just draw a trend line through here and just have a little look. That's have to be there because you've got more touches there, which means it's broken to the downside. And this would be short GP, PJ, why if you want to go short on this, the rest of the reward looks good because the reward is down here and the risk is up here. Doesn't look too bad. Looks like it wants to break to the downside. What's stopping it? There's not a lot stopping it. There is a level here that you've got to watch out for. I would be careful of this level here. Be careful of that level there as well. So it could get stuck on here. You see, adding more stuff to it, the more you see, the more difficult the trade becomes. I would actually look at it as a short, but now I'm sort of looking at it as it could get stuck here at 192. Am I willing to take that trade based on that level? And then obviously at the top, you've got the double top line there, which will send it down. 100%. So, but yeah, in general, basically, as it stands at the moment, it's going to go short. Will it break through the 192.14? That's what you've got to figure out as if it's going to go. If you're comfortable with the fact that it'll probably break through that level, then you can go for it. If you're not comfortable with that, then the range narrows a bit. Then you've got a very narrow range in here. I'm going to draw another line on here just to confuse everyone. Then you've got a very narrow range here. So now your range has narrowed down to this. Which is pretty narrow. And you're playing within that range. And if that's the range, then it's risk. The risk to rewards are not there because then your reward is tiny for a high risk. So just keep in mind that there is this very narrow area here. Maybe wait for it to break through this and then take the trade. That's that's also a fair look. And it is a different psychology shown. It's a completely different psychology training on the. Well, it's not actually completely different, but there is a difference between trading on five minute and training on higher timeframes. And also what you have to understand on the five minute is the risk. Is that much higher? And it's a different ball game slightly. And it's a different ball game. Yeah, if you want to trade on the 15 minute. So lunch lot put it down really nicely here. It's a full time job. You know, a lot of people say, I'll come in and I'll trade for a few minutes. But then you have to be really disciplined in the sense that if you lose, are you also going to walk away and say, well, I've traded my few minutes. I think that's a lot of people are going to be able to do that. And then you're going to be able to do that. And then you're going to be able to do that. So you're also going to walk away and say, well, I've traded my few minutes. I'll throw in $500 away. I'll come back tomorrow. Or are you going to spend the rest of the day in those trades trying to get that money back? Are you going to fight tooth and nail to get that money back? That's the question. Because if that's the case, you're going to spend most of your days doing more than 12 hours a day watching charts, because most of your days you'll be fighting to get those losses back. If you can say, I'm going to come in, I'm going to trade at the open, I'm going to trade for an hour or two, and then I'm going to go. And I'm either whether I win or lose. That's the plan. And if you can stick to that plan, then maybe you'll be OK. But if your trades are in a loss after two hours, are you prepared to close it and walk away? Or are you going to want to hold it and watch it for the rest of the day? Or are you going to want to try and make that money back? These are all questions you're going to ask yourself. It's a different psychology there. And what I found trading on the lower timeframes, the biggest problem, I did try to put it on one of the live shows here. I tried it with a demo for you guys just to show you that we would lose. And unfortunately, we won. The idea is to show you guys that at the end of a session, if you're losing on those trades, are you prepared to close them out and walk away? Or are you going to sit and hold on to that trade for the rest of the day? I was just psychology on that front. That's the difficulty of the lower timeframes, the higher timeframes, the four hour, that sort of thing. I know I've taken the trade, I've taken the position, I walk away. And when I come back to it, it's either one or lost. It's kind of where I am with it. And you'll have good months, you'll have bad months, but you have to see your mindset has to open up, but you have to widen your mindset. You have to be more open to trades being in for a long time or more open to waiting for those profits to come, rather than trying to push it or rush it or whatever the case. But difficulty on position trading like we are at the moment is when you get a scenario like we've had this year where the powers that be are very undecided, it becomes difficult. So what I find myself doing now is taking a position and basing my position on the overall arching idea that it's going to go that way over time. And I'm just going to widen my stop loss and it'll go that way. And that's it. And that's the only way to play it. Make a call, let's say make a call, make a call, the S&P 500 is going to go long. It's not going to go short. That's your call and the story. Why don't the stop loss and see how we go? That's kind of the only way to actually do it. So Great British Parn J.P. Why you guys now know, I feel about that one. I'm not going to trade it on here because I think it's just, I think it needs to go through that level before you make a decision on that. Something I don't like, if you've got more and more profit from capital, you lose much money on one week, 15 minutes. Well, if I try to, how many consecutive trades have you lost in your trading? You know, I don't like to count. I honestly don't like to count. But I do believe that somewhere in my trading career, I have managed to lose head in a row. But I usually don't. I usually, you know, if anything, three, four, you know, then you're on to the next and you start winning again. Particularly because I have the policy of if I lose three in a day, I walk away and then I'll come back to it. It just depends. You know, you get days, for example, like now, when I was joking about how we, well, not joking, I was actually serious. We did the test on the five minute charts for you guys and I was actually trying to show you how quick the training is that time. And we won all the trades. And that can happen. But then you'll get a day when you're walking and you're doing exactly the same thing and you lose all the trades. So I'm pretty sure in my career, I've done a 10 in a row. I don't remember, but I'm pretty sure I have. I don't count. I'm not one of these guys who sits counts how many are lost and all that, or, you know, how many trades I should take in a day or a week or a month or whatever in the case. I take what's available and if it works out, it works out. If it doesn't work out, it doesn't work out. But I must have at some start, I know I've had some losing streaks, but I'm pretty sure my worst has been 10. Um, other than that, on average, definitely nowhere near that. That's normally a few here and there, you know, and then you're in the green again. Normally turns around quite quickly. And the big thing is to stick to your system. Don't change your system every five minutes. Now see, so many traders doing that, you know, so many traders will be on one system and the next, and it works for a few trades. You know, probably because you went on a course, you got the system, all the systems work. You know, I've said this a hundred times every single system, known to mankind in the market works. And there's a reason behind that. They've already designed it to work and back tested it and made sure and they work. Everything works. Some are lagging, some not, but they work. Now, the thing is you get involved in these systems and you find it works for you for a few trades and everything's going well. And you get the mentality that the system is making you the money. You forget about the strategy is the strategy is what makes you money. I've told you this. Many years ago, I also used to think that the system made you money. I had that belief as well. Or it squiggly lines, major money. And I made that same mistake. I'm not saying I'm infallible. I made the same mistake. So you look at it and you think, Oh, this is not working anymore. You lose a few trades. And you think the system's not working. So you either tweak your existing system and add to it or do something with it. Or you go and find, search out completely new system. And I don't know if you found this as well and you're watching this and you see, Oh, this new system and it looks amazing. You think, Oh, that one works really well in comparison to mine. Look at that. That makes making millions out of that system. You're going to change the system. Off you go on that system works for a while, starts failing again. You're saying, Oh, and you're going looking again. Same scenario. It's the never ending cycle of doom, as I call it, never ending cycle of doom. You keep on changing the system until eventually somewhere down the line, 10 years down the line, you realize, well, hang on, it's not even the system that makes me money. And I don't even need a system to make money. It's insane. So just keep your system the same. Just don't change it every five minutes. Just keep on working with the system that you've got and then follow the strategy of managing your risk. You'll come out in the end somewhere down the line. You'll come out, you'll pop out the other end. You'll be okay. It's always this, you know, on a changeable system, changeable system, changeable system, never ending cycle of doom. And it's not the system that makes you money. Stop concentrating on the system. You can learn squiggly lines in a day or a week. Some of you may take less time than others, but I can teach this to a child. This is not the difficult part of trading. Difficult part of trading is not watching a green line pop out of a support or a red line pop out of a resistance. That's not the crux of trading. That's not the difficult part. Anyone can understand that. And if you get used to it and you get used to the patterns, it's easy. A lot of guys, when they're teaching this stuff, try and make it look insanely complicated for whatever reason. You can make it incredibly complicated and I can put all kinds of terminology and abbreviations into this for you and I can make it look insane. If you want me to, I can make this look incredibly difficult, but it's not. It's the simplest thing you've ever worked with, but try doing it for real. Now, you'll all know you've all tried it. You've all done it. You've all tried it. Try doing it for real. And that's where you're for short. That's where it all falls off the cliff. The money you try putting real money into it. The money you try doing it for real. That's where the problem comes. That's where the psychology takes over. And then one day the aha moment will come when you realize, oh, wait a minute. It's not these lines that make it work. It's understanding that there's human beings in the market and I'm buying and selling and I'm buying and selling and I'm negotiating and I'm trying to make a profit. I'm trying to make a good deal here. And to do that, I need a strategy and I need a risk management strategy so that I don't lose money when things don't go my way. If you slow it down and you walk away from the five minute charts, for example, like Sir lunch a lot did and had a bad month. Sorry, Sir lunch a lot. That's how it goes. But you also realize that you're putting a position in place and you have a point of view. You've drawn a line in a sand and said, that's where I want my stop loss. And you've drawn a line in a sand and said, that's where I want my take profit. And you've drawn a line in a sand and said, this should go up and I put my trade in at this level. And you walk away. The best way to learn is to walk away and see what happens, not to try and constantly manage the trade, constantly move it around, constantly work on the trade, constantly watch the trade. Because when you are constantly watching a trade on these squiggly lines and charts, is you will find yourself wanting to do things that you were never going to do in the first place. You will find out if you're not watching the trade, if you're not watching the trade, you might have come back to the trade hours later. And how many times have you seen where there would have been a red line, but then there's a big tell where it went all the way back up again. Because that's what normally happens. And you would have been quite pleased with your strategy. And you would have been quite pleased with your strategy. And you would have been quite pleased with your strategy. And you would have been quite pleased with yourself that you weren't sitting there because had you been sitting there watching it go down, what would you have done? You were most likely have sold out of the trade because you saw yourself losing money. You know, it's different when you actually trading for real guys. It's not about the course. It's not about the terminology. It's not about the complicated stuff. The lines are easy as I say. It's about understanding the market, understanding it's a bit like trading anything, like buying in shops and stuff like that, negotiating a good price. Okay. Right. GDP, JBY, Muhammad, thanks, pleasure. Good show. Face time at the time. I've tried a lot of people trade based on the time of the day, based on opening and closing that time of thing. But like I say, the psychology behind it is being able to close the trade out when it's in a loss, if you're going to walk away at that time on those short time frames. Okay. So also something I don't like if you've got more and more profit from capital, you lose much money on the one week, 15 minutes long. Okay. It's empty. Lost my internet. So true. Vivian. Hey, Vivian. Sorry I'm late. How much I must, how long has this been running so far? Um, well, wanting to do it. You must so much, man. Oh, goodness, you've missed everything. I'll have to start again. Ha ha, just kidding. Don't worry. You haven't missed anything. It's just me. We're just talking welcome to the, to the club. Welcome to the show and welcome to the 18. Please put your input in your all welcomes, put your input in and forget to be here on Thursday for the live 2K 10K challenge. Challenge two step challenges. Two step challenge 10K challenge account from fund rate effects. We'll, we'll do that on Thursday. We'll, somebody will win that again. Great one at last week. And, uh, yeah. And obviously if you want your own fund that account, go and get it in the description. Right. Somebody's going to win that one again and they can have some fun with it. Uh, I agree that watching the trade is counter productive. Absolutely. It's so is. So is. That's what I find massive at options that you don't need to worry about the stop loss levels and not being afraid that you get stopped by spikes in the price action. Just predict one short direction. Uh, the big thing as well is, um, yeah, I hear what you're saying with your options. Okay. Like I say, it's an old fashioned way of training. We used to trade like that. But if you think about it, all you're doing was this type of training. Is that if you have the psychology to, to manage it. In other words, if you position trade, it's like buying an option. Okay. Um, so for example, we take this Euro, great, which pound trade. If I was buying an option, wouldn't I do exactly the same thing? Okay. I'd be like, uh, I'm targeting that price and I, any differences, I don't have to tell it by when it has to reach that price. The options you kind of limited with that futures, you know, as to what time period you needed to be there. Cause the option expires, right? This doesn't expire. Well, it does for them, but not for you. Okay. It gets transferred over. So all you're doing, and this is actually much easier because on an option, you have to tell it, okay, I want my take profit there, but it has to do that by a certain time. Whereas on this, I tell it, I want my take profit there. And either way. So what I'm doing here is I'm saying, tell you what, I'll put my stop loss there and I'll, I'll tell you that it's going to take profit there. And I'm predicting it. And I'm doing exactly the same as I would be with an option. Think about that. Not different. The idea, this is easier because I don't have to tell it by when it has to happen. This, I can just pull it there and say, well, it can happen whenever. It doesn't matter. Not too worried. The other thing with the option, my future is in there, is if it loses, you lose it all. And with this, you only lose the amount you prepare to lose. So yeah, much of a muchness, really, all the same to me. I prefer this because like I say, it's, if I make a call here, I'm not that restricted on the call. No, in all fairness. I want to do it. Okay. Maybe want to do it. Go back on the earlier part of the video. I answered a few questions for some guys. I showed a few things and don't forget to leave a comment on some of the videos so that you can be part of the draw on Thursday for the two step 10K challenge account from 100FX and they, they kindly sponsored it. I don't know how long they're going to kindly keep sponsoring it. Hopefully, no, they keep on going. You follow top step or are on trains. Who are they? Are they on youtubers? I mean, okay, I'll be one day. I'll have a look. So, yeah, watching a trade is counterproductive. Definitely. Absolutely. You know, we trade three ways. Guys, we trade with the trend. We trade in a range and we counter trade. The market can only go two ways. It can go up or it can go down. So just take your position, leave your position in and see what happens, man. Don't, don't get all complicated about it. Don't go all insane about it. Too many guys are getting over complicated and it's, it's really not necessary to do that. It really isn't. And like I say, position trading is very much, if you think about it, well, it's very much like options and futures and that just, you really don't have to put your timing in. And I like that. For me, it's good. I moved over to CFDs when they first came out. Long time ago, man. Somewhere around the time of the Egyptian pyramids getting built, I moved over to contracts for difference. But I know there was some controversy around them in certain parts of the world. I'm not sure what parts where they stopped them for some reason or not. But I think there were a few underhanded companies involved. I started a world that's never been any underhandedness for that. So it's well, well, well controlled. In the early years, many years ago, many years ago, there was a problem, was the guys weren't watching the leverage. And some traders over-leveraged and then we had these crashes and then on Monday morning they couldn't pay the money back and that left a big hole in the market. But that's now well and truly controlled. There's no way that can happen now. It's well, well controlled now. The launch line for the 50-50 is only given if you trade a one-to-one crystal reward. A nice... What's up with the pyramids? Well, the pyramids have been around... Well, I've been around about as long as the pyramids, I think. That's all. They've been around a long time. It's the first thing that came to mind, Bruman. You know, the oldest thing. I'm sure there's other older things. I don't know. Think of them. What's older than the pyramids? I don't know. It told me. Yeah. First thing that comes to mind is something really, really old. I could call something like BC or something. They're in the Bates or whatever. Something old, yeah. Something old. OK, what are your thoughts on W.D. again and forecasting? I've come across a few videos recently. Yeah, that's quite old stuff as well, Shane. And stuff is good. It's old-fashioned, but it's good, but complicated. Yeah, nothing wrong with it. Nothing wrong with it. Let me ask you something here. Shall I unshill it? But the 50-50 is only given... If you made a one-to-one risk ratio, right? No. We'll be in, understand that... Here's the thing on the 50-50. And it's not moving in. It is moving. No. The lunch alone. OK, the 50-50 is... Based on the fact that when you take a trade, when you take a trade, you're trading against human beings, not squiggly lines, and all the systems are the same. And it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter what system you're on. Whatever trade you take, whether there was lines on your chart or not, whatever trade you take, is either going to go up or it's going to go down. In other words, it's either going to go in your favor or it's going to go against you. That's what makes it 50-50. The odds are not in your favor on the system or the chart. You are taking a hypermobility trade because you've drawn a line in the sand that makes you think that you're going to do better than the next trader. And he's done the same thing and he thinks it's going to do better than you. That's what makes it 50-50. Winning more trades than losing doesn't mean it's not 50-50. You see, whatever happens, if you are... I always explain it like this. If you take a coin and you toss it 10 times, in all likelihood, it'll land on tails five times or land on heads five times. This is always going to happen. And then there are times that it'll land on tails three times and head seven times and so on. The average should average out at 50-50. And the same goes for your trading. But you think that you've got a system, so you've got an edge. But that edge is not in the system. That edge is in your risk management and in your strategy and in your business plan. The edge is not in the lines. What the lines are giving you is a high probability trade. But if you use the lines and you take profit eight times and you win eight trades in a row and you only win $10 per trade, but on the ninth trade, you make a mistake and it goes against you. And on the ninth trade, you lose $100. You just won $80 on eight trades and you worked all out in one trade with $100. So that's why a win rate is now good to you. You're $20 in loss now. But you only lost one trade. What you want is you want to flip that around. You want it to be the $100 win and the $80 of losses. That's what you want. That's what makes trading 50-50. That's difficult to get a head around, I know. But when you take a trade, there is no guarantee whatsoever, no matter what your system, no matter who taught you, no matter where you learn from, that your trade's going to go in your favor. There's only a high probability because you drew a line in the sand that it might go in your favor. But making money off that trade is solely based on how you manage that trade. Now, the simplest way to manage that trade is a bit like the way vol trades with the options and the way I said here, you put a position in, you leave the position to play out, it are the wins that it loses. And if you lose the same amount on every single trade on the strategy and your profit is more than your losses, then there's a good chance that you'll win. But the 50-50 has got nothing to do with your risk to reward. Your risk to reward, if you've got a one to one risk to reward, that doesn't matter. You're a break-even trader, you're doing better than most other traders in the market. So, no, that doesn't matter. I've done many a trade on a one to one. And then when I see it going into profit and going in my favor, then I'll push the profit out and try and make more than the one to one. At least I'm still making a good profit. The 50-50 has got nothing to do with your risk to reward. 50-50 has got to do with when you take a trade, you have a 50-50 chance of winning or losing. No matter what your system, what your edge, or edge, all it's going to do is point your trade in the right direction. How long is it going to point your trade in the right direction for? If you're trading on five-minute charts, the possibility that it's going to last for five minutes is very good. Six minutes, maybe not. So, risk management is the trick, the strategy to making your money in the markets. I went on about 50-50, but long there, but it's very difficult to explain to people that the markets 50-50, I have to say, it's not easy. It's spread a bit before it's tax-free in the UK. Actually, I don't know. I don't know, you better check. I think it is, but you better check. I don't think any profits are tax-free, actually, but I don't know what the UK laws are. I really don't. I don't live in the UK. I know that the tax laws in the UK were difficult because I tried to move money over to the UK for a IG trading platform. And there was a big problem. I didn't want to tax implications and hassles and whatnot. So, I'm really not, you'd have to check with your tax consultant on that one. Bob, Bob, Bob, Bob, Bob, Bob, thanks, Avian. Jane, the reason I ask is that top step does not pay up for the South Africans assume you're South African. Yeah, I'm on the South African side. Jane is on the Australian side, so I don't deal with top step at all. I want to do it. I see the bidding, very text-free. FXTrader UK tax-free if using spread-bit account and two trading is your second income then tax-free. OK, thanks for answering that FXTrader. Fantastic. But I don't want to comment on taxable issues overseas because every country's got its own insane tax laws. I've got to say. OK, spread-betting is closed as gambling. Oh, really? That's interesting. I didn't know that, Danny. I learned something every day. I honestly didn't know that. OK. Thanks for all for creating a channel where people feel free to chat with each other and great. Bit of for that one. Good. Yeah, now I'm glad you guys are chatting to each other. It's great. That's what I wanted at the end of the day. A little bit of it. It's more like a chat show than a chat show. I think it's a great thing. It's a lot of it. It's more like a chat show than a trading show. But we do the trading in between, you know, a bit of education on the trading in between. But the chat says good. Wouldn't it be nice if you guys could actually do the microphone thing? I was actually figuring that out. OK. If your trading is only income, then it becomes an excellent event. And in the UK, only, yeah. I think in most cases, I've got to say that in most cases, most people I know trading isn't their only income. Very, very seldom that trading is their only income. In many cases, it might be a person on pension who's trading. It might be a person who's got investments that's trading. It might be a person who's got other businesses on the side. It might be a person who's working. I don't know. But in most cases, most traders that I've ever come across have got other sources of income because that's a type of people that we are. And I think it depends which source of income is declared as your sort of primary source of income that makes the difference most likely in your taxable situation. But I know here in SA, your whatever you earn is just taxable, you know, and you move into different different, you just sort of move into different tax packets. But yeah, what we can do here is is declare it as any equal, it's gains or whatever. It's just gains is a lot less on tax. It's not income or salary income. It's just gains or I can't remember what it's called. Would your psychology be different when trading a fund that account compared to your own money? Yes, it would. Certainly it would. You see, when you take on a fund that when you when you take on a demo account, there's is absolutely at no risk whatsoever. Okay. So then you're just trading with a system and proving to you a soft that you can you can win with that system. When you're trading with a funded account for a lot of people that get involved in funded accounts, they pay a bit of money for it. So there's something on the line. There's something on the line, but you also know it's not your whole life that's on the line. So you'll take a little bit more risk. The psychology is you'll take a little bit more risk because you're only going to lose that funded account. And then you can buy another one if you can afford it. So yeah, the risk is that much less on a funded account than with a real account. There is something on the line. So it's a bit better than a demo, but there is still something on the line. So it makes your psychology, it teaches you a little bit more about the psychology of trading. And then when you go to your real account with the real money, that's where the insanity begins. That's when it becomes much more difficult to take trades. So yes, the psychology is different between all of them. Keep that in mind. You're quite right. Totally. The psychology is different along the lines. Yeah, not be your main income. Shane, I know that Zoom is an option. And I've looked into it, but the trouble of Zoom is they don't. Zoom doesn't run for a couple of hours unless I actually subscribe to them or something. I don't know. Almost have a look at the whole situation. I'm not a Zoom expert. And then I'm so tired of discord. I don't want to deal with discord anymore. I'm so done with them. I've still got the account there for you guys, but so many people trying to imitate me and trying to be me and trying to scam people. I just can't deal with it. It's insane. Driving me crazy. Driving me crazy. So I'd rather look at Zoom. Maybe I'll pay for Zoom or something else. And then we could have some kind of one-on-ones or something like that. I just want to see if it'll attach to YouTube somehow or open up on a live show. And everybody can get involved. Capital games. That's the word I was looking for, Brimyn. Capital games. Thanks so much. When you get to my age, you forget words. Can you believe it? Probably got a lot of my mind. I'm pretty sure if I'll let another game. Leisure Hard Earned Money is another level than losing your profit on a fee. Yes. And this is what I actually had a comment on that the other day. That's been my experience. I had a comment on this Leisure Hard Earned Money is another level than losing your profit on a fee. Somebody commented to me the other day. I'm not sure who it was that a beginner should be on a demo account. And I shouldn't be selling the funded account or the proper firm account to anyone. And I do comment on this and not likely is that I agree that a beginner should start on a demo or learn on a demo obviously. But as I've said to you guys, I don't know, hundreds of times, that you can learn on a demo account, but I can teach this to you in a week, two weeks a day and you'll know the system. The trouble is it's not the system that's going to make you the money. Once you understand the system and the easiness of it and how easy it is, I mean, so many people come back from these courses and they know all the terminology. They know who started the stock market. They know and they can teach me stuff that I don't know. And it's like, wow, you guys are so educated. Can you trade? And that's the difficult part, you see. Can you trade? So if I'm sitting on a course training a demo account, that's easy. Real life is different. So someone commented to me that the beginner shouldn't get a funded account. And I disagree with that. And that is, look, up until the beginning of this year, I didn't think that prop firms or funded accounts were a thing. I thought they were a total load of rubbish and shouldn't touch them. I was off the opinion that this is something that you shouldn't go near and you can avoid it at all costs. But this year I warmed up to them in the sense that so many people came along and said they don't have the capital to get started in the markets. And I saw so many people with this strong belief that they could take $100 or $1,000 and somehow make a living out of it. And that will have a moment came to me. And I was like, there's no way that you can do this. There's no way that you can make a living like this. You're in trouble. And then I realized what the prop firms are offering. And while I don't say that you should insanely trust any of them, I mean, obviously, all I'm saying is they're offering you a route into the market where you can really practice your psychology a lot better than the demo. So if you can get yourself into a funded account, and the funded accounts that are in my description are more open like these, you can trade whenever you want, however you want, over the weekends, just like a normal account. So the rules aren't that strict on these accounts. So that gives you a little bit more space to maneuver. There is drawdown rules, but you've still got more space to maneuver. And at least you've got something on the line, even if it's just $50 or $100 or whatever it is, you've got something on the line, something to work towards, something you want to win. And it helps your psychology understand that when you take a trade, it's not just for fun. You're actually taking a trade with a view to, with a means to an end. So that's when I warmed to the funded account system. But my opinion of it is that if you do succeed and you, you're making profit share, then take your profits as soon as you possibly can, or they allow you to, but because then you get your money back and you're out of there. All I say is I don't write them off anymore. I look at it as something that can particularly help. I begin to get to the point of cash because on the flip side of that, the person is saying do demo and then put real cash in, which is what we did in our day when we didn't even have demos, but it's kind of like straight into cash. Now, if you're a beginner and you take your hard earned $100,000 and you stick it in the market, there's a strong possibility that you could lose it all. And then you've lost it all. And then what? Whereas if you practice with a funded account and you get the psychology because it is real and there's real money at risk and you want to succeed with it, then your psychology is a little bit better. And you can practice on that line before you take your $100,000 and put it in the car. It'll also teach you whether you made for this or not. It'll also give you an insight as to should I be trading or not? Is this something I should be doing? It'll give you that insight. So that's why I say I disagree with the, oh, beginners should just only work on demos and shouldn't be sold funded accounts or whatever. I think the fund that account is a really good idea now to just give you that boost before you put real cash into a broker's account and lose it all overnight. Once you've got a bit of time behind you and you're comfortable and you know how to work with the stuff, then you can just sort of shift over to the cash accounts. And if you want, you can forget the fund that accounts. That's just my 50 cents worth. Okay, so lunch a lot. Losing your hard-earned money is another level losing your profit fee. Capital gas tax. That's been my experience file. It's cool. Do you think you can make a living on a day trading? I'll get back to that. It's called a craft. Rob, I can't remember. Thing. Thanks, Shane. My experience with a demo account is that it becomes like a slot machine in Las Vegas. There you go. You know, a demo account is just, you can do what you want with it. There is math involved with that. Random that's how long is a piece of string question. You had 100 account, make 100, it's 10 times effort, but 1,000 is one times effort. You learn so much quicker when you trade with your own money because strategies become very important. Last week, I witnessed traders make 8-carnet 10k in one week. I agree, well, I agree. Shane, be very careful of this. I made 8-carnet 10k in one week. You know, yeah. Be careful of that. Yeah. There's so much of that going around. It's easy to make it look like you can do that. Yeah, I could try to cut in here and have a good week on 5-minute charts and show you that I make 8-carnet one week. I'm not going to show you what happens next week. That's for sure. Or what happens around the corner. I wanted to people out there that can hack it. They put a lot of research into every trade they do and they put a lot of research into changing their system and making it work for them. They're going to strategy and then they move things around opening times and whatnot. There's a few good ones out there, but most of them will say, I made 8-carnet 5 minutes and then they don't show you the 20k that they lost in 5 minutes as well next week. Most of these guys operate on a whole number of different accounts and then just make it look good. Involves as you learn so much quicker when you trade with your own money because strategies become very important and you are quite right. The minute you start training with your own money, the whole world changes. It actually becomes a different world. Maybe you won't risk so much on 5-minute charts as quickly with your own money. Definitely, if you put your own dash in, different ball game. The building is like sex. Everyone loves talking about it but no one wants to show you what they would actually do. As I say, just watch out for that. It's live, it looks great today and it works today and then you have a good day. You make the money and then next week it's a different ball game. I think that's a good thing about gold and long. I'll have a look at long now. I think gold is long by the way. I made $4,000 in one month but it also lost $4,000 in the same month. Exactly what Daniel says about it. Yes, there's a talk about it, a full of BS, there's a point about it. What do you think about negative risk reward ratio? I agree. Everybody here knows what I think about a negative risk reward ratio. You don't trade with a negative risk reward ratio. That's insanity. If you're risking $1,000 to make $50 profit, you're insane. The whole point of this is you don't make money on the charts. You make money on the strategy and the strategy is to make more money on your wins, not lose more in your losses. Everybody thinks that the charts are what's going to make them money and that's the mistake. That's always the mistake. I can't get this through. Charts will not make you money. Charts will give you an opportunity to trade. You're not going to make money on the charts. You can't have a negative risk reward ratio. Anyway, gold. Is this gold? Here we go. Gold is long. Totally, Shane, I looked at it earlier and I think it's long. It's on a bullish run. It's actually coming back at the moment to do a retest on what was a trend resistance and is now a trend support. You can look at it maybe coming down to these levels here and I can actually see another level. I can actually see another level right here. There is a level right there. You can use that level as well, but I would say it's probably going to come down to these levels. See how nicely the confluence is there for that line and that line. Probably going to come down to the 33-25. Somewhere close to there and you can get a nice long trade out of it. I think it'll probably give you a long trade in the long run. So yeah, look at that. I'll leave that there. You can just see that there's a line there in the sand you can use. Yes, good long trade there, Shane. Losing money is partly going once you don't feel bad about it. You start bad objectively. That's the whole point, while is that once you learn to lose, you see the whole point is to understand that you're going to lose a lot of trades. And if you keep the risk the same on every single trade and you understand that those trades have lost and they aren't in your ballpark and then you work on the profitable ones to make you more money and those are the ones you manipulate to make you more money, then eventually it'll work out. What do I think about training two time frames, say four hour and 15 minutes? What I normally do when you're training two time frames is this. Let's use Gold as an example and I've done this a million times and it's something I still do till this day sometimes is what I'll do is I'll trade the four hour but if I'm sitting doing nothing I'll go to the week and I'll say why don't we go on the weekly chart? Ah, it looks bullish. Better than day chart. It still looks bullish. It's coming back to retest. Go back to the four hour chart. It's just coming back to retest. So overall on the higher time frames I've already made my decision that this is bullish. Go back to the H1, it's still bullish. Go back to the 30. It's looking a bit bearish. Go back to the 15. It's looking a bit bearish but I know it's bullish. So on the 15 minute chart what I'm going to do is I'm going to say I'm going to trade on the 15 minute chart here but what I'm going to do is I'm going to look for a long trade. I'm not going to look for a short trade because I already know that from the week, the day, the four hour and even the one hour that this is bullish. I know that. Now I'm on the 15 minute and I'm seeing that if I was only looking at the 15 minute and not up, then I would only see bearish. Wouldn't I? I'd only see this going down. But now that I know that the overall picture is bullish, I know I know what I need to look for is a long trade out of this picture. I need to look for a long trade. Where's my long trade? My long trade is an all likelihood there. And yeah, maybe a little bit higher even. Yeah, there's your long trade. I'm looking for a long trade, probably going to bounce off this level of 33.50. So showing there's your answer, you can take the trade at 33.50 on the 15 minute and you've got a long trade. Well, I trade on the other time frames, of course. You can trade two time frames but that's how you do it. It's sort of work your way down the time frames knowing that it's a bullish trade. You know that it's overall arching, it's bullish. When you take it down to the 15 minutes, then just sort of look at it and say, well, I want a long trade out of this, even though it's looking a bit bearish, I want a long trade out of this. Look for the bullish trade out of there and take the bullish trade. And then you've got your bullish trade. That's as easy as you get. And look, there's the line that I put in. It's right there on that level and it's a good line. It's a good level. There you go. Yes, I will do something like that. Trade two time frames if you want to. I just don't bother with it anymore, but if you want to, you can't. Go up on gold for the short term. Rob, you don't have an A plus setup where you risk more. I never, on one account, changed my risk. So you see the trouble with that cilantro lot is what happens is you believe, for example, that this setup is better than the other or this instrument. Like let's say the S&P 500 is better than the Daxle, whatever. So I'm going to trade more on that. I have this setup, which is perfect. So I believe the setup is perfect. It's so much better than any other setup that I've got. I'm going to double mark my entry here because I'm so confident. Do you know what happens every single time you do that? Most of you will know that's the one that's going to lose. That's the one that's going to go against you. And the one that you thought was going to lose, that's going to win. Because it doesn't matter what your setup is. It doesn't matter what your chart is. It always remains 50-50. Always. So I've got different accounts where I risk higher amounts. There's some different accounts. And that account is controlled by that amount. That's it. And if I see, for example, here we are playing with the fun that account, having a bit of fun. So if we lose the account, who cares if we win, who cares? Okay. But then I see a perfect setup. I see a trade that die for. And I say I can't miss that trade. Off to my cash account, that's where my A plus setup's on. That's where I know I'm going in. I'm going all in. And I'm going with my real dash. And that's where the money's made. He's funded accounts. Yeah, you make some, you lose some. But the cash account, yes. If I see the perfect setup, I say this one has to win. I'll normally go for the cash account and go and do it there. But I won't play around with these accounts. And that cash account's got its own specific risk. But it's an specific risk. Thousand dollars per trade. That's it. And that one. Yeah, I'm careful with that. Yeah. Uh, pop on, pop on, pop on. Uh, Golden the Weekly and Daily is ranging. You quite right, Shane. It is. But it's also bullish. Uh, Guys, listen and read this so often. Yeah. You know, this A plus setup thing is. Yeah. You know, the reason I preach keep the risk the same is so that you understand that it's the strategy, not the system that makes you money. You know, even if I, if I go into my, like, cash account and I, and I'm taking a, what I feel as an A plus setup is like, this is, this is the best setup you can get. I'm still going to keep my risk the same. I'm still going to trade it exactly the same way. It's just that I'm putting it into my serious, the most serious account. And that's the one that I don't want to lose any money. Okay. So yeah, that one gets the best trades. Rob, are you teaching more on the chart drawing? I mean, um, well, sometimes I do. Sometimes I've done and I know I've swayed from it today because we've been talking a lot. But I mean, I do have a lot of information on chart drawing on all my videos. If there's anything specific you would like today, feel free to ask me and we can, we can have a look for you. You know, if there's anything you want to know about the chart drawing or anything like that. We have done quite a lot of the chart drawing here today just out of the blue. A little bit of taking levels off the higher timeframe and stuff like that. But I don't think there's going to be much more today because we are running low on time. We are getting to the end of the show. But yeah, if there's anything specific you want to know, please ask it. And feel free to ask it. And also guys, during the week, if you want to comment on one of my videos and ask me a question, please do. And I might not be able to answer it on the comment. You might get a short answer. But what I'll do is in my video as I'll try and answer your question. I'll try and give you the answers. If not in a video, perhaps even just here in the live show, like we did at the beginning of this video, or can I try to go and answer to his question? And yes, Mohammed, your question. I have answered in a video as well if you're still here. Now, these are things that I'll do by all means. I've got no problem. And yeah, I just, you know what really gets to me in the comments is the cynical comments where the guys don't have a name or a profile and they're hiding behind a keyboard. That irritates me. If you're a real person and a real name and a real profile, that's fine. You can tell me, I'm a man, whatever. But these blank ones, they irritate me because it's like someone's hiding out there trying to cause trouble or something. Those ones irritate me because you can't find them. They don't exist. But 98% of the guys are pretty happy. So that's fine. Yeah, how to trade is the exact entry using rational price falls away. Thanks for the help. Don't forget to like, share and subscribe. Yes, don't forget to like, share and subscribe. Okay, so you want to know how to trade basically, you're saying how to trade is the exact entry using rational price falls away from ZZP high loan. Okay, so what you're looking at is a bullish trade. Do we have one on a picture here? Perhaps New Zealand dollar US dollar. You see, you know, you know what's funny is, if I show you how to draw a zigzag entry, as you call it, a bullish or trading with the trend. So you trade three ways. We trade with the trend. We trade in the range. And of course, we trade, account to trade the trend, right? But if I show you a pattern like this, okay, it's, I can show you a perfect pattern. I can draw this in perfection. So I can do this and say, that's a pattern. And I can tell you every time it gets to here, you buy every time you get to hear it by, in hindsight, I can tell you that. It's so easy to tell you that. But how do you do that? You see that? That's always, always the issue. And too many guys out there will teach you with that drawing that a zigzag pattern is perfect. And it's not. It never is. Look at this. This is in a range. This isn't a New Zealand dollar US dollar. This is in a range. But in that range, you've got a trend. And in that trend, you've got a pattern up, down, up, down, up, down, up, down. How do you know when to buy a good? Well, the easiest way, the easiest way is to look for that high over here, that sort of last high by in there, like here, round about here. It comes back and it sort of goes past it, comes back and it starts going past that high. You can buy it again. It's breaking through that level. You can buy it again. You look down here, comes down and it kind of just goes past that last high and you can sort of buy it again. That's the way to look for it. Or you can look for demand levels at the bottom. Demand levels are very good. You know, you put the money in at the bottom where it's gone up, the bottom where it's gone up, the bottom where it's gone up. You can put these levels in and you can look for these levels to bounce off, to buy off. So those are another way to look for it. I don't want to confuse everybody here, but the best way to do it is to wait for it to come down. Take the money off these demand levels. If there isn't a demand level, at least look for that last sort of high level and see if it's in that area because it'll probably come down to that and go. But the easiest way to do it is with trend lines. Okay, trend lines give you the answer. It's not so good on here because this one's more in a range. I'm just going to show you on something that's got more of a Australian, Canadian dollar, more of a picture for us. Yeah, it does. So lines, let's say it's in a various trend. This is the easiest way to do it. And that is just, you see that? Okay, the easiest way to do it is if it's in a downed trend. It's to take it. I'm going to draw lines here. And it comes down and then you buy it when it hits the trend support. And you sell it when it hits the trend resistance. You buy it when it hits the trend support. You sell it when it hits the trend resistance. Buy it when it hits the trend support. So on, so on, so on. That's the best way to do it and the easiest way to do it. It's less confusion using the railway tracks. If you draw your trend line in, effectively what you're looking for is three points, three touches. Three touches give you a good trend. And that's about the easiest way you're going to find to buy and sell in a trend or to buy and sell on your zigzags as such. Either way, it doesn't matter which way you're going. It's easier than looking for the demand levels and the supply levels and so on. And the highs and the lows. But then the counter trade as you know, as if it breaks that trend and goes the other way, then you've got a trend going the other way. And then you simply buy and sell on that. That's about the easiest way to do it. And that's the quickest explanation I can give to you right now. On that. And I hope you guys have liked, shared, subscribed. Yeah. Okay. Next thing I'll add the donate to the Rob Fund. I'm just kidding. Don't worry. But did I see once somebody was like donate to a dog or something? I don't know. I can't remember. It's quite funny. Oh. There's stuff. Yeah. Mostly agree that the line drawn into the highs, lies, draw, trend, channel on that night. I'm trying to make it keep it simple. The easiest way is to keep it simple. Don't get too over complicated with it. I find myself sometimes over complicating myself. You know, where you start questioning yourself. The easiest way is a channel. And if it's in that channel, you'll pick it up quite quickly and it's easy. Easiest way. Do you take Bitcoin? I thought you said Bitcoin was drunk today, Brimann. Yeah. Look here, Bitcoin. Let's kind of look at Bitcoin, shall we? Yeah. The funny thing about crypto is, look, I don't know. You guys probably know my feeling on crypto. My feeling on crypto is that it's fresh air. So I'll never invest in crypto. I'll never put my heart earned money into crypto and leave it there with the hopes that it's going to go up. Never. I'd rather take my money and put it into all the shares, you know, the Coca-Cola's and the Amazon's and then videos and all that. And just leave it there, even Google, even though it's in focus. You know, I just leave my money there because it's an asset-based company. And I know on an investment side, best blessed to leave your money. I don't understand crypto enough to figure out where its asset value is. As far as I'm concerned, it's the biggest Ponzi scheme in the world. And it's made up of fresh air. In other words, it's a market made up of me trading against you. And that's all it is. But as I've said a million times, I'll trade orange peels if they're available to trade. So I'll trade them because it's a tradable instrument. But I trade it. What I don't understand about crypto though is some people only trade crypto. But what I've noticed is that all the different cryptos are basically moving the same way. So it's a bit like only trading the euro, you know, dollar and the great British brand, you know, dollar they're just going the same way. They're not doing much. So I'll only bother looking at Bitcoin when it comes to trading. But coin at the moment is in general short and it's broken through its trend and it's heading on to the downside at the moment. It's correcting. I expect I looked the other day and I thought I expected to get back to the 100,000 again, drop back down to the 100,000 and then we'll ever relook at the whole situation. But I don't see the points in trading and all these other ones. They're all the same really. They all move the same way. If something happens in the market, they all tank or they all go up. There's not really a big difference between all the cryptos. So they're quite boring to me to be honest with you. You can trade them on the weekends and stuff like that 24 hours a day in that. But I tend not to bother. And I think a lot of people might trade some of the other cryptos because they're cheaper or cheaper to get into or whatever the case. But as far as an investment goes, I wouldn't touch them and you trade them. But yeah, and also any bother with Bitcoin, there's anyone worth bothering was to be honest with you. But I'll trade Bitcoin if it's in the right place and give it a shot, but not really a big deal to me. Not musting. Let's put it that way. Not musting. If it's your thing, good stuff. Definitely not my thing. How's our trades doing? Are they alive? That one's losing $6. No! At least the other two are winning. Okay. Great. Foundations in Bitcoin. Worth pleasure, I just don't know the Bitcoin, dude. But in my way, I'll spend it on something cool. No, no, no, it's fine. Just teasing guys. I'm just teasing. Not Bitcoin. You said crypto is sort of short. Don't you agree? Send the Bitcoin. I'll do that. Send the Bitcoin. Send the Bitcoin. I'm a short Bitcoin, but it turns on me today. Oh, gosh. Yeah. Crypto is boring at the moment. Yeah, I made my money with BTC. You know, a lot of people were very lucky with BTC, and I'm glad that you made some money there. I myself held the same view then as I hold now about crypto, so obviously I didn't invest in it. I made my money in shares, shares investments that have been there for years. And I wouldn't say they did worse than Bitcoin. It's just that a lot of people were fortunate enough to take the chance on Bitcoin and invest when it was at a very low level. And obviously it went insane. Some of us became billionaires out of it. Wow. Insane stuff, but you know what I always say about any kind of schemas, especially the Ponzi schemas, you know, the guys will get hurt and the guys will get in a last. So my feeling is that if you suddenly woke up now and thought, I'll get into that now, you just feel like you're getting in last. And it's just waiting to pounce on you, you know, that scenario. So no, I'll just stay with the shares. I'm good with that. But yeah, if I'd been a bit braver back in the day when Bitcoin came out and I'd been braving enough to get involved, then maybe I would have made some money out of it. But well done, if you've made some money out of it, you took the plunge and you did good. And that's the thing. But Bitcoin, yeah, it tries, you know, people say, show me crypto forex shares index, whatever, you know what, the strategy remains the same. And the system also remains the same. You're using basic price action as a system and you're using your risk management strategy. And if you keep those two together, you can trade anything. It doesn't matter what you're training in. It doesn't matter if it's forex. It doesn't matter if it's crypto. It doesn't matter if it's indexes. It's only the fundamentals that change and the understanding of the fundamentals. But if you're not trading with the fundamentals, if you're trading on a technical basis, you can trade absolutely anything that you want. And it won't make any difference. It's just the number going up and down. That's the point on my always. There are so many people get all complicated about it. I only trade Bitcoin or I only trade forex or I only trade this. Just trade it all guys. It's exactly the same. It's all the same stuff. It's not different. It's just, you're just trading squiggly lines and choosing which way it goes. Up or down. It's you can only go two ways by yourself and then just use your strategy around it, make some money out of it and manage your risk. And use your risk accordingly and just keep it simple. That's the best way to do it. Done over complicated. So important not to over complicated. I hope I answered your question correctly there that you had there. Want to do it. But that was the way I answered it now. Just use the gen lines. And I did thought coin really. That's actually worth billions. You know, when you say that, and it's a real thing, I've got to say that don't you agree with me that this is just like fresh air. It doesn't make sense, does it? I mean, if you can trade something called far coin, now come on, man. What's going on here? Yeah, I know it's I'm still not convinced. Full as day, I'm still not convinced that it's a real thing. But yeah, okay. It's made lots of money for lots of people. My concern with it, my biggest concern with crypto is if it ever does get found out like Bernie made off, you know, with Enron and all that back in the day, where he had the 13th floor with computers and no real trading and all the rest of it. And he was even on the stock market board and all the rest of it. And if you think about it, I mean, come on, guys, it's crazy to think that I look like that can get away with it for so long. And then when it goes wrong, that's what worries me when it gets found out. And let's say they find out that cryptos are just the big balloon of fresh air, and it pops. What scares me is that because, you know, how many really big companies have got involved in it now? Big, big people have got involved in it now that they have got exchange traded funds on it. And all kinds of things going on. And it's almost it's hit that scenario or too big to fail. Remember the old too big to fail story, yeah? That really worries me because if that fails, we're in big trouble. And so right now, even if they found out that it's completely fake, I mean, I actually believe right now, if they find out it's completely fake, they would do everything in their power to make sure that no one finds out about it and cover it up because they don't want that thing to fail. So, I'm going to go ahead and take a look at the overall market. I obviously have a bias. There's nowhere around it. You can't not have a bias. It's, you know, even if you try and say, I don't or I won't, you know, you'll always have it. You'll always, you'll always hear things in your ear. You'll always have a feeling on which way the markets are going, especially if you've been doing it as long as I have. I mean, you study three, three, four years of trading and investing. You just, you hear things and you just, oh, it's going up today, you know, it's going down or whatever. So you automatically have that bias. It's not a bias I'm looking for. It's just that now I start looking at my trades. Psychologically, it's already there. There's nothing I can do about it. The bias is there. So yeah, everybody will always have a bias when they're taking setups in general on everything. Um, A day, bias is W1 week one simple as your C of M8. Yeah, you see, don't flip-flop with a move. The bias is actually quite easy. For example, if I look at this Australian dollar, Canadian dollar, I just look at the picture. I don't even if I don't have any lines in here. What is this picture, doesn't it? This picture tells you that on the four hour chart, this is bearish. Bearish. So you're running bearish at the moment, but there's also no trade here at the moment because it's in between the two lines. It's in the middle. But you can see clearly that it's bearish. If I go to the US 500, what do you see here? It's straight up. It's bullish. There's only two ways. And it's a bullish trade. What I'm talking about bias is overall bias. But if you want to look at a trade and have a bias on the trade, it's clear. It's bullish. And like I said earlier, if you go to the higher time frames and get a picture on those, let's see what those look like. And then you can go down and just, you know, you can keep your bias going to the bullish side. And then if you go to the really low time frames, you know, you're looking for long trades because the overall arching picture is bullish. That's basically how you can do it. But it's pretty straightforward. The bias is you see it. You see it clearly. It's bullish or it's ranging or it's counter trading. That's all. There's only three ways that we trade. We trade three ways. The market's 50-50. It's going to go upwards, going to go down. What you're looking for is a slight bias as to which way it's going. So if it's trending up, it's bullish. If it's breaking to the downside off of that, it's counter trading. It's going in a straight line. It's ranging. But even if it's ranging, it's going up or down. You can work off that as well. Okay. All right. Yeah. Thanks, guys. It has been a really long time. Been sitting here for a long time. It really is time for me to go. It really is time for me to close the showdown. I enjoy being with you guys. And that's what keeps me going so long. If I didn't enjoy being here, believe me, guys, I wouldn't be here. I do it for a bit of fun, actually, and a bit of companion ship as well. I like having you guys here. It's fantastic. Guys, that's true. It is time to move on and get on with other things. I want to thank you guys for being here with me. I want to thank you guys for joining us. Don't forget to come on Thursday. Thursday will have the draw again. Have a bit of fun. And keep your feet on the ground. Reach for the sky, as always.
