Timestamp: 2026-06-01T10:23:59.229189
Title: 布兰登比格斯 - 5月27日 BV1WBGQ6HEgs
URL: https://b23.tv/t5oqQEr
Status: success
Duration: 2:38:52

Description:
### 第一部分：作者的思想地图（Author's Map）

#### 1. 核心论点（Core Thesis）
上帝正在对全球教会领袖及美国进行一场剧烈的“震动以唤醒”（shaking to awaken）的超自然审判，旨在彻底清除教会内部的妥协、懦弱与世俗化，并将在恩典时代结束前（以2026-2028年为关键时间枢纽），通过兴起一批具有“若死就死吧”之决绝信念的全新一代领袖（大卫与以斯帖），释放人类历史上最伟大的末世灵魂大收割。

#### 2. 论据基础（Evidentiary Base）
* **圣经神学先例（Historical/Theological Precedent）**：
  * **历代志下 16:9** 与 **诗篇 17:8**：证明上帝的眼目正在严厉审察祂的军队、新娘和领袖的内心。
  * **旷野中的以色列一代**：因惧怕和“草芥般”的自我认知而倒毙旷野，无法进入应许之地，类比当下因不信而将被淘汰的旧建制领袖。
  * **以斯帖的宣告（“死就死吧”）**：作为末世年轻一代领袖全然摆上、无惧死亡的属灵模范。
* **历史与地缘政治类比（Historical Analogy）**：
  * **罗马帝国的衰亡**：类比曾经作为世界霸主的美国，因内部腐败、妥协和“特洛伊木马式”的内部敌人渗透，即将迎来降卑与重组。
* **超自然异象与直觉（Prophetic Visions & Intuition）**：
  * **受创的鹰与死去的和平鸽**：鹰代表受伤的美国；鸽子代表和平，其心脏被两只黑乌鸦和一只红基鸟撕裂，预示着和平的丧失与内部撕裂。
  * **新“归零地”（New Ground Zero）**：异象中倒塌的建筑、废墟与浓烟，预示着美国本土将遭受类似911规模的物理或经济重创。
  * **Jonathan Cahn 的《哈宾杰》（The Harbingers）与“耶和华的节期”（Moads/Appointed Times）**：在先知性方言中看到的闪烁霓虹灯和未亮起的黑线，指向某种关于末世金融大崩溃与恩典时代结束的精确时间表。
* **社会时事证据（Anecdotal & Cultural Precedent）**：
  * **英国学校事件视频**：展示英国公立学校学生向非基督教神祇下跪，用以证明西方社会和“懦弱的男性领袖”对异教渗透的妥协。
  * **阿富汗撤军的混乱**：作为美国现政府及领导层愚蠢、无能的现实证据。

#### 3. 逻辑机制（Logical Warrant）
* **属灵因果律（Refiner's Fire -> Greater Glory）**：极大的苦难与炼净（Refiner's Fire）是释放极大末世荣耀与超自然神迹（如空间传送、神圣医治）的绝对前提。
* **历史循环论（Historical Cycle）**：没有一个世俗帝国可以永远称霸。美国如当年的罗马一样，其金融（去美元化、新型全球数字货币的诞生）和军事霸权的衰落是历史的必然，也是神圣审判的一部分。
* **先知性预表（Prophetic Timeline）**：时局的震荡（火山爆发、河流干涸、政治暗杀企图）并非偶然，而是神圣时间表（Moads）正在对齐的物理表征。

#### 4. 明确界限（Stated Scope）
* **受众界限**：此信息不仅针对灵恩派（Charismatics），而是针对整个“基督的身体”（The body of Christ as a whole）。
* **时间界限**：明确指向2026-2027年过渡到2027-2028年的两年窗口期，直至2029年9月安息年周期（Shmeetha cycle）的终结。
* **免责声明**：讲者明确指出其所言“是我个人认为圣灵正在向我展示的，以及我感到主引导我祷告的方向”。

#### 5. 隐含对立面（Implicit Opponent）
* **建制化与世俗化的巨型教会（Mega-ministries）**：那些拥有电视节目、庞大员工和温和、讨好型信息，却“没有圣灵大能彰显、如同触摸冰冷火炉”的商业化教会。
* **深层政府与妥协的牧者**：暗示部分牧者实际上接受了政府或“深层政府”（Deep State）的资助，故意宣讲“稀释的、不冷不热的福音”，以使信徒保持属灵贫血和懦弱。
* **去雄化的现代男性（Metrosexual/Limp-wristed Men）**：穿着紧身牛仔裤、依赖烟雾机，在道德和政治危机面前毫无骨气的懦弱信徒与领袖。

#### 6. 预期效果（Intended Takeaway）
呼吁信徒（特别是男性）立即摆脱不冷不热的属灵昏睡，培养无惧死亡的“斗牛犬般的信心”（bulldog faith），在身体上做好自卫准备（捍卫第二修正案、持有武器），在属灵上迎接大收割，并在经济动荡中通过神圣的“财富转移”来资助末世宣教。

---

### 第二部分：尖锐而客观的批判性审视（Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review）

#### 1. 强力重构（Steelman）
该论证最强有力的部分在于其对**现代西方建制化基督教之精神危机**的诊断。讲者准确地指出了巨型商业化教会的弊端：高度娱乐化、流水线式的讲道（Paroting）以及缺乏深层属灵生命力的“信仰消费主义”。从历史与社会学的角度看，当一个文明或帝国（如美国）处于极度分裂、债务高企、道德共识瓦解的阶段时，其系统性崩溃（如去美元化、内部社会动荡）确实符合历史演变规律。讲者试图通过唤醒个体超越世俗安舒的“殉道者精神”（Martyrdom）来对抗体系的腐败，这在宗教社会学上具有强大的动员力量和危机应对价值。

#### 2. 最薄弱环节（Weakest Link）
该论证的致命命门在于：**将极度主观的“超自然异象/方言直觉”与极其具体、复杂的“地缘政治与宏观经济预测”进行强行且随意的因果绑定。**
> *“A new financial system that's about to be re-burfed. A new global digital currency... I saw a military things taking place on our own home soil... an actual invasion of like a Trojan horse.”*

如果2026-2028年并未发生美国本土的物理战争入侵，或者全球金融重组并未以讲者预言的“1920年代式大崩溃”形式发生，那么其整个基于“末日紧急性”建立的神学动员令、财富转移说以及对现代社会的恐慌叙事将彻底破产。这种预言一旦在时间节点上落空，不仅无法唤醒教会，反而会造成更大规模的属灵幻灭与信仰废墟。

#### 3. 证据审查（Evidence Audit）
* **选择性事实与断章取义（Cherry-picked Media）**：
  * 讲者播放一段英国学校活动的片段，便直接得出“世俗与伊斯兰势力正在强行灌输我们的孩子，而懦弱的男性对此毫无作为”的结论。这完全忽略了该事件在英国多元文化教育背景下的具体合规语境，属于典型的“用单一极端案例煽动群体恐慌”。
* **自然现象的过度神学化（Over-interpretation of Natural Events）**：
  * 将马荣火山喷发时伴随流星坠落的自然天文现象，直接解释为“天上的神迹与兆头”；将里奥格兰德河因季节性和气候原因导致的干涸，等同于末日审判的物理证据。这种解释完全排除了现代科学的常识性因果律。
* **无法证伪的预言套路（Unfalsifiable Predictions）**：
  * 声称“一些巨型教会在未来几个月将不复存在，有些将不复存在，有些则会兴起”。这种缺乏具体名称、具体原因和精确时间的表述，是先知性运动中典型的“冷读术”（Cold Reading），无论现实中哪家教会因财务、丑闻或自然原因发生变动，都可以被事后套用为“预言应验”。

#### 4. 隐藏假设（Hidden Premises）
* **假设一：阳刚之气、持有枪支与真正的基督教灵性生命成正比。**
  * 讲者强烈暗示，不持有武器、主张非暴力或性格温和的男性是“阉割的、无能的”（sissy/limp-wristed）。
  * *追问*：如果真正的信仰需要依靠“车里家里装满弹夹”来维持，那么耶稣在客西马尼园命令彼得“收刀入鞘”，以及早期教会在罗马帝国屠杀下“如羊进入狼群”的非暴力殉道，在讲者的神学体系中是否也属于“懦弱无能”？
* **假设二：美国的国家命运（及宪法第一、第二修正案）与上帝的末世救赎计划天然绑定。**
  * 讲者将捍卫美国宪法持枪权与捍卫福音大收割等同视之。
  * *追问*：上帝的国度是否必须依赖一个拥有强大武装、捍卫中产阶级生活方式的美国存在？若美国如罗马般覆灭，上帝的教会是否就会因此失去大收割的能力？

#### 5. 盲区分析（The Blind Side）
讲者提倡的“激进、无惧死亡、同时高度武装”的“斗牛犬信仰”，实际上是一种**基督教民族主义（Christian Nationalism）与极右翼民兵意识形态的混合物**。
这种叙事存在一个巨大的历史与神学盲区：早期基督教之所以征服罗马帝国，恰恰是因为信徒在没有武力、没有宪法权利保障、甚至甘愿放弃自卫权的情况下，通过“爱仇敌”和“无抵抗的殉道”展现了超越世俗政权的精神力量。讲者试图用现代美国的爱国主义、枪支文化和军事美学（如其观看《拯救大兵瑞恩》后的感悟）来置换新约圣经的十字架神学，其结果不是引向属灵的炼净，而是引向政治极化与潜在的暴力对抗。

#### 6. 致命一问（One Hit Kill）
> “既然你宣称自己拥有以斯帖般‘若死就死吧’、将生命完全置之度外的殉道者决绝，为什么你同时又强调自己‘车里、家里到处是枪支弹药，弹夹比牙膏还多’，随时准备诉诸武力自卫？你究竟是信靠那能使死人复活的基督，还是信靠你车里随时可以上膛的子弹？”

#### 7. 如何证实或证伪（What Would Settle It）
* **实证检验（Empirical Test）**：
  * 精确记录讲者给出的时间窗口：**2026年至2028年（特别是2028年9月至2029年9月的安息年周期终点）**。
  * **证实标准**：在此期间，美国本土发生大规模物理战争入侵，美元系统彻底瓦解并被单一的全球数字货币取代，且全球教会发生讲者所描述的、伴随物理空间传送等超自然神迹的物理大收割。
  * **证伪标准**：若至2029年底，美国虽有经济波动但社会建制与金融体系依然在常规轨道运行，未发生本土战争，且那些被指责的巨型教会依然照常运作，则彻底证实讲者的预言仅是基于地缘政治焦虑与右翼政治叙事的个人心理投影。

---

### 第三部分：概念关联图（Mermaid Diagram）

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    %% 核心冲突与论点
    A["👑 讲者核心主张: 末世震动与灵魂大收割"] --> B["2026-2028 关键时间窗口 (Moads/节期)"];

    %% 肯定阶段：现状与危机
    subgraph SG1["🔵 现状：不冷不热的建制化教会与降卑的美国"]
        direction TB
        S1_Church["寻回者友好型巨型教会 (Mega-Churches)"]
        S1_Preachers["复印机式牧者 (Parrots): 有讲道无大能, 如冷火炉"]
        S1_Men["去雄化的男性 (Limp-wristed): 懦弱、妥协、缺乏骨气"]
        S1_US["美国现状: 政治正确、军事衰退 (阿富汗撤军)、面临内忧外患"]
        S1_Ostrich["鸵鸟心态: 面对危机将头埋入沙中, 维持周一到周五的世俗生活"]
    end

    B -- "诊断指出" --> S1_Church;
    S1_Church --> S1_Preachers;
    S1_Church --> S1_Men;
    S1_US --> S1_Ostrich;

    %% 否定阶段：审判与震动的催化剂
    subgraph SG2["🟠 震动与审判：美国的降卑 (罗马帝国的衰亡)"]
        direction TB
        S2_Crisis["特洛伊木马 (Trojan Horse): 内部敌人的渗透"]
        S2_Financial["金融重组: 去美元化, 全球单一数字货币诞生 (1920年代式大崩溃)"]
        S2_Vision["超自然异象: 受伤的鹰 (美国) 与心脏被撕裂的和平鸽"]
        S2_GroundZero["新'归零地' (New Ground Zero): 物理/经济重创、废墟与浓烟"]
        S2_TimeUp["神圣沙漏: 恩典时代即将结束, 黄金之沙漏尽"]
    end

    B -- "预言释放" --> S2_Crisis;
    S2_Crisis --> S2_Financial;
    S2_Financial --> S2_GroundZero;
    S2_Vision --> S2_GroundZero;
    S2_TimeUp --> S2_GroundZero;

    %% 否定之否定阶段：余民的兴起与大收割
    subgraph SG3["🟢 应对与出路：斗牛犬信心与末世余民"]
        direction TB
        S3_Refiner["炼净之火 (Refiner's Fire): 极大的苦难带来极大的荣耀"]
        S3_Remnant["新一代领袖: 大卫 (无惧巨人) 与以斯帖 (若死就死吧)"]
        S3_Bulldog["斗牛犬信心 (Bulldog Faith): 激进、勇敢、绝不妥协"]
        S3_Harvest["末世大收割 (Final Harvest): 超自然神迹 (如空间传送)、灵魂得救"]
        S3_Wealth["财富转移 (Wealth Transfer): 神圣资助末世宣教"]
    end

    S2_GroundZero -- "催生" --> S3_Refiner;
    S3_Refiner --> S3_Remnant;
    S3_Remnant --> S3_Bulldog;
    S3_Bulldog --> S3_Harvest;
    S3_Bulldog --> S3_Wealth;

    %% 批判性审视整合 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review)
    subgraph SG4["🚩 批判性审视 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review)"]
        direction TB
        HR_Incoherence["神学自相矛盾: 宣称'若死就死'的殉道决心, 却高度依赖'枪支弹药'自卫"]
        HR_Nationalism["盲区: 基督教民族主义 — 将美国宪法权利 (持枪权) 与神圣国度利益强行绑定"]
        HR_Evidence["证据漏洞: 极端案例概括 (英国学校视频), 自然灾害神学化 (火山/河流干涸)"]
        HR_Unfalsifiable["预言套路: 宽泛且无法证伪的时间表 (一些巨型教会将倒闭)"]
        HR_Test["实证检验: 2028-2029年若美国未发生本土入侵或经济彻底崩溃, 则预言破产"]
    end

    S1_Men -- "批判指向" --> HR_Nationalism;
    S1_US -- "批判指向" --> HR_Nationalism;
    S3_Bulldog -- "批判指向" --> HR_Incoherence;
    S2_Vision -- "证据审查" --> HR_Evidence;
    S2_Financial -- "时间节点检验" --> HR_Test;
    S1_Preachers -- "先知性话术审查" --> HR_Unfalsifiable;

    %% --- 节点样式定义 ---
    classDef mainClaim fill:#FFFACD,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:3px,color:#333
    classDef stageNode fill:#E0F7FA,stroke:#00ACC1,stroke-width:2px,color:#006064
    classDef stageOutcome fill:#FFECB3,stroke:#FFB300,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#E65100
    classDef stageTrigger fill:#FFCDD2,stroke:#EF5350,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#C62828
    classDef stageValue fill:#C8E6C9,stroke:#81C784,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#2E7D32
    classDef reviewNode fill:#FFCDD2,stroke:#D32F2F,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#B71C1C
    classDef reviewDetailNode fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#EF9A9A,stroke-width:1px,color:#C62828

    class A,B mainClaim
    class S1_Church,S1_Preachers,S1_Men,S1_US,S1_Ostrich stageNode
    class S2_Crisis,S2_Financial,S2_Vision,S2_GroundZero,S2_TimeUp stageTrigger
    class S3_Refiner,S3_Remnant,S3_Bulldog,S3_Harvest,S3_Wealth stageValue
    class HR_Incoherence,HR_National_ism,HR_Evidence,HR_Unfalsifiable,HR_Test reviewNode

    %% --- 子图背景样式 ---
    style SG1 fill:#F1F8E9,stroke:#689F38,stroke-width:2px,color:#33691E
    style SG2 fill:#FFF8E1,stroke:#FFB300,stroke-width:2px,color:#E65100
    style SG3 fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#42A5F5,stroke-width:2px,color:#1976D2
    style SG4 fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#EF5350,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#C62828
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
Well, good evening family. Thank you for joining me again today. We're going to go over some of the things the Lord showed us this last video, three days ago. And I've taken some time to pray over what the Lord has been showing me. Some of the things, you know, like I've always talked to you all about knowing your audience. Now, what the Lord has been showing me the last 48 hours really strong is concerning the leadership. Concerning leadership in the church. So if you are just, I wouldn't, everybody's a leader. I wanna say that, right off the bat. Everybody's a leader in the body of Christ. You're leading somebody. There's always somebody watching. But there's certain, you know, whenever God puts his hand on you to lead as far as a pastor, a teacher, evangelist, or whatever. prophetic voice or whatever, too much is given, much is required. And so as I was praying, the Word has been very heavy. To the point where I didn't want to come across making a video last night is fear. I want to be precise in how I'm saying things, and so that you can take it to God in prayer. that I say is in my opinion what the Holy Spirit is showing me and what I feel the Lord is leading me in prayer too. And right now he's examining us troops. He told me he said, I'm examining my leadership, I'm examining the troops. And he started talking to me about how all the children of Israel, because there was doubt and unbelief in them, that generation didn't get to go on and experience the promise because they said words the size of grasshoppers, the thing is fault. Where the size of grasshoppers can you help me honey? This one I think is what's it's I mess with it and I was trying to bring it up closer to me. Thank you. Yeah I think so. You're good. It's good. Everybody say hi Hello, hello, Braden, were the size of grasshoppers, and they didn't go and inherit the land because they were afraid. They didn't do what God had called them to do. So a whole generation had to pass away other than just a few handful to go and take the promised land. Canons, the beautiful, the milk and honey, but the giants were in the land, right? And so as I was praying he was relaying there's a lot of elders, there's a lot of people that are in ministry right now that there's going to be a real reshaping, a lot of reshaping. The body of Christ, what you see and everybody always, because there's a lot of charismatic that follow me, non-denominational that follow me, He's talking about the body of Christ as a whole. And a lot of times, you know, we, you know, as Charismatics we think, well, because we're baptizing a holy ghost, we walk with the giftings and we do this, that, you know, he's really talking about us, but he's talking about everybody. He said, I'm shaking the church to awaken the church, and the church isn't just Charismatics. The church is the body of Christ, everybody. And the way it will look in the days ahead, he started talking to me about Rome. And he brought up to me Rome back, was it, 1500 years ago, 2000 years ago, whatever it's been. Back when Jesus was on the earth and things, Rome was it. Everybody thought then, if you were to tell them that Rome would cease to exist in the way they are now, But then now they would have laughed at you. Nobody's more powerful than Rome. Their army, their bridges, their roads, their infrastructure is superb. It's the best in the world. There's nobody more powerful than Rome. Rome is it. But that Rome and that power doesn't exist anymore. And there's a changing of the tide. There's a changing of things coming. There's a shaking to awaken. There's a new financial system that's about to be re-burfed. A new global digital currency. And the United States of America for over the last, what is probably 100 years plus, has been the top dog on the in the school yard. It's like the, you know, you look at United States and they're the supreme military, the best of everything. But for the first time ever, I saw a military things taking place on our own home soil, not a civil war per se, but an actual invasion of like a Trojan horse. I keep seeing this, the enemy within. And I saw a wounded eagle. I keep seeing this wounded eagle. this wounded bird, the dove that was laying and had trusted in that, and I saw the dove with two black crows and a beautiful cardinal that took the dove's heart. I saw a dove of peace, I saw that dove dead on the ground, and I saw the heart that was ripped out of the dove by the two black crows. And the Lord's been talking to me about the church, the Lord's been talking to me about the shaking of this nation. And as he said, the eyes of the Lord run to and fro. I have the scripture. He brought it up to me as I was, I believe it's second, Chronicles 16-9, okay? Is that right? For the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the horde to show himself strong on behalf of those whose heart is loyal to him. And this, you may have done foolishly, therefore, for now on, you shall have wars. But as I was looking at the eyes that he was examining, he was examining his troops, he was examining his bride, he was examining his leadership, and he started talking to me about the shaking to awaken. And then keep me, Psalms 17, 8, keep me as the apple of thy eye. Hide me under the shadow of thy wings. As he's examining you, he started saying, keep me. He's examining the hearts. He's examining his troops and there was so much compromise and so much hearts, so much hearts in the hearts over the body of Christ. There was so much mixture and he was calling for a pure ride to come to his side, calling for the church to wake up out of this slumber that we see. And in Psalm 178, keep me as the apple of thy eye. Hive me under the shadow of thy wings. That's where we all should be. Examining our hearts that we are the apple of his eye. As the eye of the Lord, 2nd Chronicles 169, the eye of the Lord is run into and fro, looking at the hearts. And this was my heart's cry as I was praying this out in in the Spirit. I come to Psalms 17-8 as his eyes were gazing upon us. What does he see? What does he see in you and me as leaders, as as as like you're bowing the horn on the wall, warning of the coming of the Jesus, warning of the second coming of the Lord? We're all looking for the rapture we're all looking for this, but as we're experiencing, we're about to experience the greatest outpouring and the move of the Spirit of the Lord we've ever seen before. And many people don't believe, can we take the land for Jesus and Cuba? Can we take the land for Jesus in Venezuela? Can we take the land for Jesus in Brazil and Thailand and South Korea, North Korea? whatever whatever your heart's desire. As I told you, there was highways in the spirit realm that we would translate. You'll be preaching in one area and then all of a sudden we'll be translated to another area and God will have us minister to a group of people maybe in a house or a school or wherever. But but but taking that down and unbelief of the old generation because they'd never seen it before. Well, this is the way we've always done it. He said, I'm examining my troops and there'll be some of them that will not make it to what I've called to this next promised land, to this revival. To, well, we're the size of grasshoppers. We can't take Cuba. We've never heard of revival in Cuba. The United States of America has to invade. There has to be all this stuff. No, there's not going to be anything in Europe. There's not going to, the Lord said, I'm done with the tongue that is against. What, if you're not for him, you're against him. If you're not going to start saying that to your mouth, we're going to have the greatest revival this world has ever seen. And I saw new young David's. I saw new young esters. And he started saying, if I heard it so loud, if I perish, I perish, if I perish, I perish. One more time I said, haven't you been called to the kingdom for such a time as this, to Esther? Haven't you been called to the kingdom for such a time as this? And he said, I'm examining the hearts. Is there fear in it? to what I've asked you to do. Who is on the Lord's side? And I know it's not always, it's knowing my audience. And that's why I was praying over that. I said, who is, because the babies don't get it, but you veterans understand what I'm talking about. Who is on the Lord's side? And I saw a cleansing coming of older, huge ministries again. I'm talking mega ministries that have TV programs, staffs, a lot of people, a transition. And he said, some of these will not even exist in the months ahead. Some of these have, their time has come. Their season is over. And you will see one that was, be no more, and one that wasn't, be. And I saw a rising up of new faces that will come out of nowhere. And I saw them taking the land. I saw a bulldog faith coming on people that just say, if I perish, I perish. They're not worried about themselves. They're not worried about the finances. They're not worried about what people think. He said, I'll raise up people to fund this, with creative ideas to get wealth, to fund this in time move. And the Lord's it, Brandon, there's not enough preparation in the heart. There's not enough going higher. I saw so many eagles that were plucking with the chickens. And I was one of them. He was correcting me. He said, you thank too much about what other people think. If you want to be a voice piece in this next wave, you've got to fly above all this Christian turbulence and be set apart. There's no compromise in this of, well, what does sister clipboard think? Who gives a care, what sister clipboard thinks? or brother busybody. Just fly like an eagle. An eagle don't care about what those other chickens are doing. He's looking at them as prey. I mean, that's what an eagle usually is doing. But it's time to come up higher. I'm not saying we're eating our own. That's probably a bad illustration. But he's looking for snakes. An eagle is looking for the serpent. an eagle is looking for the rattlesnake or the cobra or the whatever he can do to pluck his head and eat him, right? That's better illustration. You like that one? That's better. I like that. The eagle's looking for his lunch, but he's not down on the bottom, plucking away like a chicken. The chicken doesn't know what's coming and eagle does because why he's up high enough to see what's coming. And as we are praying over this nation and Rome fell as America will be humbled, America will be humbled and shaken to awaken. We have a window of opportunity we're praying for our president. And this opportunity, what he said, don't, don't be an ostrich that sticks its head in the sand, we become so complacent with time. Yesterday's news, we can hear about something that made your happen like a Charlie Kurt thing or whatever and something huge happens back last year. But a lot of people go back to their Monday through Friday and they got their nose to the grind stone and they're going with all their heart, just trying to make it barely get by. That you get distracted with the water that's getting hotter and hotter all around you. And that's what he was talking to me about. I saw something that didn't make my flesh happy. And he's looking for the people that will say, if I perish, I perish, I'm sold out. It's easy to be a parrot. I was listening to, I can't tell you what I was listening. I was listening to, as I'll just say this, I was listening to a sermon. And in the sermon, and it was really good, it was really good, it blessed me so. Everything that individual was saying was about fire, talking about the glory, talking about things, but afterwards they said we're gonna lay hands on people at the end of the service and we're gonna experience this, right? And it was like touching a cold stove. I watched as there was no manifestation of what the individual preached and was so excited and enthusiastic. The sermon was what, try to stir everybody up. It was one of those ones you go, but there was no demonstration after the sermon was over. I walked the Lord said, I want you to see something, as I was walked, and He said, this comes out of refiner's fire. This level of glory for the, find the scripture for the greater glory be, comes by the free finding. It comes by the refining and the greater the, and the greater the suffering, the greater the glory, the manifestation of the glory. And he said, it's on individuals like it was William Seymour, like it was Smith and Wilgol's worth because I've said, why don't these men? It was the refining fire. If I perish, I perish. If I perish, I perish like Esther, like what she said, there's a key to it. We can pair it a lot of things and we can say some things that some other elders say because it sounds good. You can stir up the crowd and people hooping and hollering. But there's a level of the glory. There's a level of the manifested presence of God that I'm after. And I was listening to the parent of the sermon and you walk away and they're, oh, we're gonna have fire in here afterwards and the glory of God's gonna show. And it's like touching a cold stove. And you walk away and you go, was that it? with that, that was it. That sermon lasted for over an hour and a half and that was the glory. Does that make sense? For I, from suffering to glory. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us, Romans 8, 18. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. It comes with the glory, the greater outpouring comes with pressure, the greater. He's not going to share his glory to no one, but I saw as you go vertical and you attract to deflect, you attract to deflect as you're that mirror and you're always shining and up to him. It's the reflection of the mirror. As people are looking at you, you always point them to the Father. It's the level of what I've saw coming that He's raising up new voices and new faces in this new, this, what's about to happen. But the church that we've always known is a gun, is going to change in a major way in the days ahead. You'll pinch yourself and even look back I can say, I remember when, for how we've done church in the past will be no more. We're going to do something new that's never been done before. It will be fueled by fire. It will be fueled by, it will be, it will be, huh? Fuel, fuel, fuel by prayer, ignited by a spirit. Know what a brother Hagen say? Yeah, ignited with his glory. by fire. Tell me what it is in the comment section. But what the Lord was showing me was it's going to be fueled by prayer. And the Lord was showing me about the igniting and the last outpouring will be something that we've never seen before, where it's coming from and us being bold. Are we the size of grasshoppers in these giant size? Can Cuba be saved. Can Venezuela be saved? Can we, can we see LA be saved? Can we see Portland Oregon? Have a major revival in Portland, Oregon? Can we see Chicago in the hood and the ghetto of Chicago? Can we see Chicago have a move of God? Can Chicago be touched with the fire of the Holy Ghost with the bloods and the crimps and the gang members? Can we see the greatest move of God in Brooklyn and the worst parts of New York. Is it Harlem? What is it? I don't know. Skid row. Can God come in and shake? Skid row. Oh no, we're the size of grasshoppers. That's when he said he's killing that in people as he's examining us and he was showing me I mean, it's time for us to wake up. And that's what he's been dealing with me about. It was heavy. And as I was in deep prayer over this, he started to say, Brandon, I have to do something different because I'm out of time. And I'm raising up people that are on fire for me, that are just sold out, that say, if I perish, I perish, you're not afraid of death, you're not afraid of that. And he's, because I was looking at it, I said, Lord, we see people dying. We see this happening. I watched Private Ryan from Memorial Day, and it was a very bloody movie. I'd never seen it before. But I was doing it, it was on my heart. And you said, well, Brandy, you think God told you to watch Private Ryan. It's about honoring the troops that fell on the beaches of Normandy. That I was, as I saw them take that beach and the Germans were beating them down of those bullets and they were just shredding their bodies with stuff. And I watched them in fight as they were going up that hill to get that. I thought, my God, what did they fight for? They fought for us to have freedom to be able to do what we're doing right now. They fought for us to have freedom for religion to be able to have our bill of rights to do the things that we need right now for revival that's about to happen. And I'm telling you, ladies and gentlemen, it takes people are so limp-rested. You're so metrosexual skinny jeans and fog machines with you, you can't tell if you're homosexual, if you're really a male. Do you have what it takes to be that bulldog on a bone for what are you just gonna be limp-rested, sir? You're gonna have to have some testosterone up in here And we're going to have to be like the mighty men of war with David. And there's so many people that have no, uh, uh, well, you know, I'm just like, get out of my way. I'll never be friends with don't ever don't ever try to talk to me. Either you got or you don't, either you want to fight for what God has given us, or we're going to lose it. Let me give you an example of why I'm, I'm as radical inside tonight than I've ever been before. I wanna read this, move over, baby. I can't see it. Fueled by prayer, fired by the spirit, ignited with the glory. Fueled by prayer, fired by the spirit, ignited with his glory. Now, you wanna know why I'm passionate tonight. And you say, well, what do you mean by being limperous? I'm talking about people who are just passively getting by and you have no test, you're a weak, wippy, sissy man. That's what I'm talking about. This is the trash I'm talking about and I wanna show you what happened in England today. And this is coming to America. This is coming to America if you don't wake up. I'm telling you, this is the trash are gonna push on our kids in the coming days. In England, they're taking them here, play. So public school systems do this now, huh? So you wanna let your kids learn how to be Islam. Limp-rested men let that happen. Good for him. Do you see it? That's what I'm talking about. They're gonna push it down your throat and you're either gonna swallow it or you're gonna spew it all over them. You're not gonna ever cause my kids to bow down to a false God. The only person who ever died for you was Jesus Christ and there's no other way to the Father except through him. Muhammad didn't save you, Buddha didn't save you. The devil can't help you. There's no other religion other than the Lord Jesus Christ. There's no other way to the Father other than him. Good for that young man for saying, I ain't bound to your false God. But this is what I'm trying to tell you as the church is so passive. People get upset when I talk about having firearms. I got firearms all around me all the time. I carry a gun on me. I carry a gun in my car. I've got more clips than I've got toothpaste in my house. I'm telling you people get mad at me. Get mad, go away, I don't care, I don't want you here. But I'm gonna tell you, if you don't get radical for Jesus, you said, well, what's I have to do? Because our founding fathers that died on the beach of Normandy that went in and George Washington that suffered and their troops all fought for your freedom. ever single one of them died on that battlefield, but they didn't do it with an ink pen. They didn't do it, sister clipboard with the little clipboard. They did it with a musket. Some of them with not very good rifles for what I was watching, but it took some guts to take the land and say, no, you're not gonna kill all these Jews. No, we're not all gonna be speaking German. You know, there's a lot of God-fearing Germans that watch me, but Hilar was a tyrant and the same kind of anti-Christ spirit's coming again. And as long as we are here, we will occupy and take the land for Jesus. And we pray and we intercede, but there's gonna have to be some of that bulldog faith. This says, no, not in my house, you're not doing this. As you see, the little kids bowing down to Muhammad, the false gods in schools and you go, what is going on? Is that normal? No, that's not normal. It bothers me a lot. And maybe you're watching the wrong channel because I'm not gonna sit idly by and watch schools here. I'm gonna pray, I'm gonna do what we gotta do. You say, well, well, braining, what do you think we should do? We got to speak out on our school boards. I'm not talking about people getting violent, but I'm talking about whenever it comes down to our war and what's going on right now, we're fighting an enemy that has a backbone saying, listen, we're gonna fight America. There's still crying out death to America all crossed over and I ran right now. I saw the videos and I'm like, we're trying to liberate you, we're trying to help you. And these crazy people are in the streets yelling deaf to America's deal. And I'm like, they're, what in the world's going on with them? We're trying to take out your government to help you have a freedom and to get in a way. And they're still in the streets yelling deaf to America. And I'm thinking, my God, I thought that's a difference in culture, huh? Something ain't right. So we pray for the people, we pray for our troops, we pray for them. As I watched Saving Private Ryan, like I saw that movie was so real to me, shook me. I'd never seen it before. And I went, oh my gosh, this is a lot. This is this is over the top. What those men went through. Thank God for their service. But they didn't they didn't do that and die on that beach with blood everywhere and guts and everything. And I thought they didn't do that for you to lose your freedom. Our our our our our our bill of rights. I told you what will be challenge for the first amendment will be challenged greatly in 2028. Your first amendment rights will be challenged greatly and I saw a web that was wrapped around by a spider all the way across it and the spider had built a web all around the first amendment and it was trying to come after the second amendment and it was it had a black line it was like and it couldn't get through remember that And I said, it was trying to wrap the second amendment. I don't know, I guess I want to say I'm cut from a different thing than a lot of y'all. There's some of you that think a lot of me, like me, and know that it's time to get radical for Jesus and preach the second coming of the Lord. And it's time to wake up. Jesus Christ is coming. And we have so many differences, so many people that are just so, you're brainwashed. There's a lot of you that are brainwashed. And I walk away and I have to be quiet for three days because I get so frustrated with it. And I go, I just gotta take a break and listen into him being quiet because I hear him. And he is not screaming, he's a still small voice. And if you wanna know what he's saying, you gotta get quiet in the flyer bed. You gotta get quiet in your place. Pullin' leaves, keep clean and told it's whatever you gotta do, keep your ending and he'll talk to you, but he's not in all of the clutter. Do you know, it's interesting because I watch there's so much, he's so reserved. He's so self-control. He is the fruits of the Spirit. Everything about the Holy Spirit is the fruits of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, self-control. He's not like a church social, social, And there's everybody talking, he's reserved, and he's poised, and everything about him is amazing. Every single time he talks to me, it's always, it's correction and leading me. And he says this is, but he's always about being a leader and a backbone. He's not this. And there's many of you that don't know him, and you think you do, but you don't. Even with the glimpse of what I have, He is awesome. And every single thing when he talks, he's not in the clutter. He takes you to get quiet in the fire but as you see, I got dirt on my nails. I pull weeds. He talks in the fellowship, in the communion of that steel, small voice, and then it gets loud. And he talked to me about Modi today, the man that's over in India. And I could see the plans. I could see the oil filled burning. I could see the petro dollar. I could see so much. And as that cloak come on me so strong as I was worshipping and singing, the glory came on me. I went into a home depot and I walked in and I saw a man. And I could hear in the spirit the two people standing together, as I was underneath that glory, I could see that he was gonna rip him off in business. And I didn't say nothing, but when it's on and that glory's on me, I can, I'm able to see about business and stuff. The Lord talks to me about money and business. And he'll say, this right here is not good, that guy's gonna rip him off, Brandon. I said, well, what am I supposed to do about that? It's talking, it's fellowship. It's getting out of all the YouTube clutter. And there's so much clutter. He is that still small voice. The church drama. There's so much of it. I guess that's why I'm like the one called in the wilderness and I'm on the backside of the desert a lot. I just, I love being by myself with just my kids and my wife, I could care less, I could go away and never talk to any y'all again. You know what I'm saying, that's why I feel. It's like I go on the backside, but the Lord said, I called you and I need your help. Okay, but I want you all just to get it, get it, that we have what it takes to win the nations for Jesus. We are not the size of grasshoppers. We are the giants in the land and the devils running from us, we're not running from him. We will take the land for Jesus with Holy Ghost and fire, But sometimes it requires war, ask our brothers and sisters that, well, brothers that went to Vietnam, ask Pearl Harbor victims, ask desert storm, ask our troops in Afghanistan, when we abandoned in our post because of sleepy Joe Biden and left all our military equipment over there, ask these idiots that are running our country, some of them, in the last administration. And then we have what's going on in Britain right now. It's all being set up for the end times. I understand it. But we must arise and shine for the light has come and the glory of the Lord has risen on us. But you gotta learn how to protect your family too. For no, and say, listen, my kid's not going to school that day. We're not doing that. I'm not doing that. Like that young man right there standing down. I'm not bound to your God. I like to shake his hand. It's a good for you, buddy. All the sheep. All right, next clip. The car, car guy on. I see it burning. I see it burning and I've been praying over this. A major attack coming and wiping the info structure of this oil all over this island. And so it's According to N-S-N-A-S-A fire arm data, I'm firm's data, sorry, okay there's fires all over it. Now I saw attacks all over this and it was not America, it was Israel and I saw oil trying to go to $200 a barrel and there was great anti-Semitism that rose up all across the land because of this. And China and Modi, the India, was, and they were all going to Russia, trying to figure out how they could get their oil supply and things that were about to happen when I saw this island completely engulfed in flames. Now, it's happening a little bit, not to the the extreme that I saw it, but, huh? So they shot down the drones in the street. They're shooting down down the boats and all this, and so we see what's happening with that island. Now, a meteor striked into Mayan volcano on the Philippines. Mayan, does that say it right? Mayan volcano in the Philippines, as the volcano was erupting. See it? Signs in the heavens, signs in the ears. What's the odds? Is that pretty cool? That's pretty neat. Braden show me that, I thought. Oh wow, that's pretty sweet. Chew. Signs in heaven, signs in the earth. Kate next. The Rio Grande is drying up. There's no rain. There's no water, there's no water, there's no water. And there's parts of the Rio Grande, you're able to just drive across. No water in the Rio Grande for the traffickers. And now they're still talking about Ivanka Trump has finished his annual medical and dental checkup at Walter's read and what and his head and back to the White House yeah we just pray for his veins we pray for his heart we pray for his body that he lives long and finished strong and then we had the shooting and this lady and then they've gotten memes all over the internet from this lady diving down the other He's like, what is it? She didn't know what was going on. She didn't even know what was going on. They're shooting all behind her. We are our president. We gotta pray for his life. We gotta pray for his protection, huh? There's an explosion living on. Major explosion living on. Major. I wonder what that's about. Hmm, pretty big deal. All the stuff that's happening. It's pretty crazy all the things that are happening right now. Huh. So it was pretty, other than that, it was a pretty slow news day. Is anything about anything else you done? Well, thank you, B. You did a good job. Everybody say, yay, Braden. You know, I know I probably come across sometimes as a jerk, but I don't know how else to say it other than I see what the Lord shows me and I see what's coming about a new Rome, a new shaking, a new, all these things. And the only way now to say it is, come across this blunt and as bold as I can. Because now the ones that have ears to hear will hear and the ones that don't, that you are in trouble. I'll be with you. If you don't have ears to hear what the Spirit of the Lord saying, he's not speaking to you. And you're not preparing yourself in this Bible and reading it and it becomes a foundation in your life. It's a scary time for the world. We're gonna see things accelerate on a level that we've never seen before, going from now until September. And it may come across as that you're like, Brennan, why are you sad, this is because I'm trying to rattle the cages of the people who are asleep and whatever it takes to get you to wake up out year slumber, say, listen, we've got to take the land for Jesus. The greatest revival that we've ever seen before is standing right in front of us. The harvest is plentiful and the labor is a few. And I was just watching those sermons and I'm like, what does it take? The William Seymores, the R.W. Shambagh, the Or Roberts, the Jack Khoes, the amazing people that walk back in the 50s, whenever it was 60s, 50s and 40s, and they saw great mighty signs and wonders. And we've got to be that generation now that takes the baton and says, as for me and my house we will serve the Lord and we will be victorious and what God has set us out to do and if I perish, I perish. Well, you know, take communion with me and pray for a little bit. I'm sure I've ticked some of you off, but I don't know how it's to tell you because you ain't You're not hearing it in your secret friendly church. You're not hearing it in your secret friendly church. You're getting a water down message. They give you enough to buy a path. And sometimes I think these people are working for the deep state. Some of them are the Illuminati. Some of your pastors are actually part of the deep state. They're actually being paid off by the government to teach you nothing. And you go to it because you have no discernment. But I'm saying there's a lot of it is that they are, They are feeding you this porridge lukewarm gospel to keep you anemic and limp-rested so that you're not able to stand for what's about to happen. And you'll be the ones that's passively going, here am I, I surrender. Thank God for George Washington. When the king said, you're not doing that. Taxation without representation, right? The Boston Tea Party, the Paul Revere's, our heroes of the nation, the George Washington, the Thomas Jefferson, the people that said listen, we're not we're going to have a nation that's free, freezing the death out there cold with their their muskets, single shots, loading it down, trying to keep alive. Thank God for people like that. As we had Memorial Day this weekend, thank God that they didn't say, well, you know, we'll We'll surrender to the king and the queen. Father, I thank you for all our founding fathers. I'm thankful for where we are as a nation. And Father, as for us, Father, they try to poison our food or water or getting men to be with all this extra, extra estrogen. And men aren't men anymore, it seemed like. There's some of them that are, Lord, they fight inside of them. But Lord, I ask You God to stir on the inside of people, give them that bulldog, the devil ain't stealing our land. The devil's not taking what belongs to us. We will fight for the right to pray and be able to read our Bible and to say what the Bible tells us to say. And they ain't taking our rights and privileges with our first amendment to say you ain't allowed to do that anymore. Oh, no, you don't. Father, I thank you, Lord, that this is the generation that will not taste death. This is the generation that will not taste death, that we are the generation that rises up and says, enough is enough. We'll have revival. We're going to see revival. We're going to see the move of God all throughout this land and we will take it for Jesus as the mighty moving force. The Tommy Hicks vision that the giant rises up and joins together and says, we will have a major move of God. And Father, I thank you, Lord, for the body that you suffered and you died for every one of us, that we don't have to have sickness and disease in our hearts. We don't have to have bondage. We don't have to have a mental torment. We don't have to have the principalities and these powers trying to knock this down for you giving us dominion and authority over all of them, according to Ephesians. And we take this body in the name of Jesus and we thank you Lord for the greater glory. We thank you Lord for the greater glory. And we have it inside of us and we're excited because you've called us to the kingdom for such a time as this. And we take this body in the name of Jesus. Thank you Lord for our founding father. Thank you, Lord, for our troops. Thank you, Lord, for all the ones that protect this nation. And we're so grateful, Father, the Father, what I've seen coming that we're on the right side of it because we're flying with you high like an eagle. And we're not down on the ground, plucking like chickens. The ever single person who's watching this right now is Eagles. We're Eagles and we are soaring on the wings like Eagle. We're flying high and we take this blood right now and we make much of the blood and the blood makes much of us. We apply the blood of Jesus over California, the Gavin Newsom and all these evil people, politicians, Father, will not keep going the way they're going, destroying our nation. But Father, we have good people, the Spencer Pratt, or whoever, Father, these people that are running for office that will rise up and talk about Jesus. He may not have any experience, Lord, but Father, I ask you to anoint them to do it. Glenn Dales and Brian's father of people over Oklahoma, people over these areas. Father, they would rise up and have a backbone and say, listen, we're not going to tolerate this anymore. We will have a God fearing land again because if my people, if my people were called by my name, we'll humble themselves and pray and we, we, we turn from our wicked ways. Father, I thank you, Lord. You said you would heal our land. And Father, I'm calling for revival from seed to shining seed from the Gulf, all the way up to Canada. I'm calling over the Rockies from the Smokies. Father, I'm calling a revival in the name of Jesus. Healings and demonstrations and manifestations of the glory all over Cuba, all over Venezuela, all over these areas. We're calling for a major outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord. like we've never seen before. But revival starts with us. And Father, I thank You, Lord, that that light is shining so bright on our face like it did, Moses, the people see it in the highways and the byways, Father, all around. Father, they see the glory all around us and they say, what must I do to be saved? What must I do to be saved? We take the blood and we apply it. anything you want to show me tonight Lord if there's anything Lord we're not here to perform but we're here just to yield to you and if there's nothing you want to show me God I'm not here to perform for any of these people I'm here just to surrender my all to you whatever you have need of God I will serve you for I fear you Lord not man I fear you God not man and if we perish we perish but we will serve you until our last breath. We will fight for our freedoms. We will fight for our Bill of Rights. We will fight for what you told us we could have. And we won't sit back idly by and allow the devil to come and steal, steal, destroy our house. But we rise up with a backbone like a crowbar and we say Satan thus far and no further. You will not do what you're doing. We thank you, Father, for the blood, and we apply the blood right now in the name of Jesus. It never loses its power. This song was on my heart all day today. I sing it. But until then, my heart will go on singing. until then, with joy, I'll carry on until the days, and I change this line right here, until the days when my eyes behold my Jesus, until the day, God calls me, home sing it again be I like that and until then my heart will go on singing and until then with joy I'll carry on until the day my eyes be whole Oh, my Jesus, until the day God calls me, Oh, Father, I love you. We're so passionate about what you call us to do in these last days. until then my heart will go on singing and until then with joy I'll carry on until the day my eyes be whole my Jesus until the day God calls me whole. Father, we love you. Until the day. Until the day. we will go on singing until then we'll go on singing and until then with joy. I'll carry on until the day when my eyes behold my Jesus until the day God calls me home. He's coming soon. He's coming sooner than a lot of you think. But until then, my heart will go on singing, and until then, with joy, I'll carry on until the day. My eyes behold, it says that city, but I believe is Jesus until the day God calls me home. Oh, Father, we're going to go on singing. We're going to push with all we've got. We're going to push with all we've got. We're going to occupy until you come. Lay, lay, lay, lay, Bustabla, Lay, Bifle, Bifle, Boshnanda, Lay, Pafla, Lay, De, Bustabra, De, Dada. You know, Braden, sing, find that. He, Braden typed this in. He walked the streets of Calvary, the rugged cross he bore. The crowd stood by and watched this man. They heard him preached before. He knew me. But yet he loved me. He, whose glory makes The heaven shy. No, that's old record cross on so I cherish you can you can and while you're looking The old rugged craw Till my trophies had last I will clean to the old rugged cross, and exchange it someday for a crown, the old rugged cross, so despised by the world. you find the one? If you didn't, that's fine we can move on. I just got to find the vein. The heaven shy, no one's worthy of such mercy. When he was on the cross, I was on his mind. He knew me, but yet he loved me. He who's glory makes the heaven shine. No one's worthy of such mercy. When he was on the cross, I was on his mind. Father, we worship you tonight. Thank you, Father, that whenever you were on the cross, I was on his mind. Lord, we're so grateful. We're so thankful. We're so grateful. We're so thankful that when you was on the cross, Lord, we were on your mind. You can sing the God on the mountain, be, okay. Life is easy. When you're upon the mountain And you've got peace of mind, like you've never known. But when things change, when you're down in the valley, don't lose faith for you're never alone. And the God on the mountain, you're going to have to pay attention. is to God in the valley when things go wrong. He'll make them right and the God of the good times. He's still got in the bad times, the God of the day. He's still got in the night. We talk of faith when we're up on the mountain, but talk come so easy when life's at its best. but in the valley of trials and temptations, that's where your faith is really put to the test and the God on the mountain is still God in the valley When things go wrong, He'll make them right, and the God of the good times is to God in the bad times. The God of the day is to God in the night. The God of the day is still God in the night. I'm gonna sing that part right there, the chorus. And the God, no, it's fine, baby. And the God on the mountain, you go ahead. Is still God in the valley when things go wrong. He'll make them ride, and the God of the good times is still God in the bad times. The God of the day is still God in the night. Father, we thank You, Lord, that You're the God of the day and You're the God of the night. And we're so grateful, Father. We're so grateful. We're so grateful. There you go, baby. You found it. He walked the streets of Calvary. The rugged cross, he bore. The crowds stood by and watched this man. They heard him preach before. No one could ever be worthy. of such love. I'd never find when he was on the cross. I was on his mind. Keep going. The look of love was on his face. The thorns on his head. The blood that stained his scarlet robe had stained it crimson red his eyes were on the crowd that day yet he looked ahead in time when he was on the cross I was on his mind he knew me you're growing up to baby too fast. Yet he loved me, he whose glory makes the heavens shine. No one's worthy of such mercy. When he was on the cross, he had me on his mind. Father, we're so thankful. Father, we're so grateful. We're so grateful. What's on your heart? You know, Father, as we praise, we worship you. We press, we press and deeper into that river, Lord. We worship you. You know, there's like there's a thousand different directions you can go every single time you come on here. And it's like whenever you you have all these the voices of the world they they come at you with all different directions pray for this pray for that pray for this and you can you can you can have pinpoint precise prayers because you because everything's important or you can pray what's on his heart pray where the flow is at. Finding the vein. That's what I do when I get quite you. You have to find the vein for where he's wanting you to go for that day. It's like having a scatter shot versus it in the bullseye. And when you're praying in the spirit and you push yourself over in that river, it's the flow of that river. Concern an Israel, concerning what's coming for this nation, concerning president. There's so many things that are good ideas, but are they God inspired idea for today? What does he have for you today? And it's like the only way I can describe it to you is even like when I was seeing right then, is like a path. And you can see the beautiful path that it's not wide, it's very thin. And you snake through it, It's like you, it's a winding like this. And I can go through the side over the side of this mountain and I was going around the side and it was when you cross over into that bend, it's into that place of worship. It's finding the songs that are the what he wants to hear today and just because I sang them last night, doesn't mean that's what he wanted today. Finding what is on the pulse today, where is the vein? And that's the only way I know how to describe it to you in the natural. Finding the vein, finding the prayer vein because it's always as you stop, you have these pauses and you can go up with a clock and then you'll pause and you'll can flow and you know what is God inspired prayer. You flow with that river and then when it stops, you stop and then whenever and you can pause and sometimes you can keep going but when you take those pauses and you wait on the Holy Spirit to to keep pushing you in that river and you can go, or it's dry. And I'm not saying dry prayer is not any good prayer, but there is a difference between spirit-led prayer and in dry prayer. When you're trying to get, you cultivate, cultivate, cultivate, and when you pray over, and there's a lot of people that just pray in that dry state that you never ever reach that place of the pouring over into that river. That's where I'm looking for it's like the only way I can tell you is like it's like going to the doctrine if you're dehydrated You sing and you sing and you sing and then boop you'll hit it. It's refreshing. It's like drinking water It's going to the oasis Surely the presence of the Lord is in this place, I can feel the brush of angel's wings. I see glory on each face, surely the presence of the Lord is in this place. the presence of the Lord is in this place. I can feel His mighty power and His grave. I can hear the brush of angels' wings. I see glory on each face. Surely the presence of the Lord is in this play. Father, we worship you. Surely the presence of the Lord is in this place. I can feel His mighty power and His grace. I can hear the brush of angels' wings. I see glory on each face. Surely the presence of the Lord is in this place. His blood can save the soul. May heal the sick, men the heart. His blood can give you access to the very throne of God. And still can go the distance. The pain to where you are. And the pain to where you are. distance. The pain to where you are. His blood is for you. I see a vein, but it's not full, I see Jonathan Khan, very clear. What about Jonathan? I see the harbingers. Harbingers. What What is he saying about that? Montibi fi fi fi araba. He's, I see him going to a CHP. I see John Kelpatrick. I see Montibari because Shoshu Bre de Bacorba rebeque Shoshu Patada. Is he going there in September? Best is to see Kishtar rebeque Shoshu Shoshu daraba free araba. It's about the feast days. I see the mastostosti pretae push the Friday de Bequito. But it is the best Easter aboard a barbecue to schnondo. Banger mongra aboard a barbecue to stop. And I see this green, evergreen bush. What is Mistosti pretae push the Friday de Bequito? But it is the best Easter aboard a barbecue to schnondo. Banger mongra aboard a barbecue to stop. I'm camped right at this word, the Harbingers, I'm camped at Jonathan Khan, there's something with this book. There's something with what the Lord is saying there. It's highlighted great with gold. It's highlighted great with gold and it looks like rock. Harbinger, the I see H, but it's with a rock. It looks like, almost like you like cobblestone, like There's two lines that are attached to the harbinger. There are two black tubes. There's two black tubes that are attached to harbinger, the beginning letter, and there's another one underneath here, and I can't make that out. It's not lit up. It's not lit up. There's a sign underneath it that's foggy that has no lights on. but they're both powered for lights. I see Jonathan Cahn's face, but underneath on this, the harbinger is lit up with, you know how you see those marquee lights, like it showbiz, like with the lights, those little lights that are all in those marquee signs, and you see there's little bulbs that make one big light and a bunch of little bulbs. The harbinger's lit up like that with this black cord, But underneath it is another new word. A word that's underneath this, that's not lit up, the lights are not on, but I cannot see it. It's fogged. I believe it's a new book. I believe it's a new book. And it's a book. It's a book, it's a new book. the mysteries, the mysteries, the mysteries, the mysteries of the word, the mysteries and I didn't make it a bit this though. It's writers block writers block coming against this spirit that's coming on writers block we take authority over this that the mysteries of what you need sir are coming to pass when it's time it will spring forth like oh well it will spring forth like oh well and the lights will So come on. This, this, this. Practitate. And they'll be flowers. There'll be flowers. I see the flowers. Spring up. I see flowers. But these flowers don't look good flowers. They're plastic flowers. My mother's little sister. She'll look for more. Ah, tchistos! Ah- tchistos Beeh-dee de beeh-dee Beeh-beeh-dee beeh-dee beeh-dee beeh-bouk-dee beh-bouk-dee beeh-bouk-dee beeh-dee beeh-dee beeh-dee beeh-dee beeh-beeh-dob-bo. It's the book. It's a book. La da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da A major building that has fallen. Shhh, shhh, shhh, shhh, shhh, shhh, shhh, shhh, shhh, shhh. Whoa! Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Monglet. A new ground zero. A new ground zero. Koo, ba da la káriyakko, da sa. Anemango boitala li li li li leopabala, tako de bokee pa la da da da da da say. Do you know, do you know, Woo uo, u o o o o o o o o o o o o o a cw yeah you Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Open my up, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh. Hmm. Yeah, go back and don't know if you still, still, still, still, still, still... Oh, oh, oh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yourself will cover. Bambande wundhiste bambande wundhundes Ah and I see it in the two years and I see it two years, I see it 2020, 2020, so, Whose name? Whose the cause. Whose the cause. It's the üyorsun. It's two years it's my night eatin' and inch in the morning give its to soul parro ro ro beans day and I then I ate and la madinda abadale de de ce dita aésta steel steel steel steel steel boom, ia da la love I see the harbinger. The harbingers, they're coming. But it's a there's a there's something. a mo-ad, a mo-ad, it's the appointed time, it's with the harbinger and the appointed times. And I see this two-year window going into Russia on 9-11, 9-11, but I see a book, but There's something about the mystery, a new, it's a mystery, but it's concerning the end of it all, but concerning about America, concerning about this all that's happening. The B system, AI, there's something bigger. When I'm get to this thing of 2020, 2026 to 2027, 2027 to 2028, This is what the Bho就会 do in ancient times. This is what the Bho will do in the Dhebho, not for the Bho will do in the Dhebho. This is what the Bho will do in the Dhebho. I still see a new ground zero a new ground zero I see a new ground zero ground zero. I see America if I see smoke. I see a building. I see rubble. I see a great ground zero. A new ground zero. I see, uh, Harbingers. What are you? Yeah, yeah. It did it. He's so, so, so, so, so. The time is up. Time is up. Time is up. Time is up in the Harbinger. The time is up. The time of grace is up. up. The time of grace is up. The time I hear, the time of grace is up. It's a global economy and its concern in finances. It's concerning money. It's concerning the harbingers of money. You'll see a birthing of the mud that's this this. This this this. This this this this. This this this this that my disagreement. They they they they they they. Eh yeah. Bbang bbang I see, 1930s, 1920s and 19 in 1979s continued to display the 1929, 1930s, 19, boom, they coast the road, they coast the boom, the road, boom, papa, atuto, stoo, the great, the season of grace is up, the season of grace is up, the season of grace is up, crystal, batala, konga, a coo, stoo, ruka, korita, for the harbingers, the harbingers. The harbingers. No, no, you know, you'll know, you'll know, you'll know, you'll know, you'll know, the. And in the note, do you know when you're not to hear and when the when the when the when the when the when the it will start to flash and I see below the harbinger start to flash, you know, whenever it's trying to get power, you know when the balance is trying to get power power and it's flickering. A light is flickering. It's about to come on and I see the light about to flip on and and and Harbinger is still big and bold and light but the bottom is starting to flicker and come on. I see a letter I see a V used to rock, my It's the year leading up to it, it's this year, 2027 to go into 2028, it's this, 2026 to 2027, 27 to 28, it's that, it's going, it's the two-year window, what is that? We all can't afford to do anything just try to make it hard and slow, we all are going to change now. Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. It's just a-st-stop-stop-stop-stop. Come on, nigga, nigga, brand, nigga, nigga, nigga, nigga, nigga, da. Big crowd, nigga, nigga, nigga, nigga, nigga. I see the financial pouring I see a window of this this I see this this, this shot of like a, like the, the green vile I see Trump, I see, I see a stimulation, I see a, a wealth transfer. I see a wealth transfer still. I, shush, shush, shush, shush, kahnama. Geng, ng ng ng ng ng ng ng ng ng ng ng ng ng ng ng ng ng ng ng ng ng What will you do with this time I've given you? What will you do with the time I've given you? Just pursuit did institute AWMALANG dead Run to MANGLE PA LA LABA TOUCH P through the cross to Prada I see a detour you know whenever in the side side of an engine. And it has that Teflon white around the screw. It's like a it's like a plumbers tape. I see plumbers tape on this with an oil in an engine. I see some kind of I see some kind of a kieta buradu kushu kurabuki buradu buradu you that what that melted? What is that? I see a plumber on a screw going in an engine we call for the blessing we call for this now and yet yes yes yes the No one to time bring, under September. September September, September, how could they must that day, it's just us, just over and about a day. Prato Bo, D'o Bo, Gidebe. P-p-p-p-p-p-p-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v. Avatavada de Bokrishszo. Yup, do-do-do-do-do-do-do. When you-when you-when you-when you-it's on me like, uh, uh, uh, you know when you hear the-the engine starting the uh, uh not, uh-huh, it's like-it's that right there. Uh, uh, uh, uh, in the tongues. It- uh, uh, and-and it's like, uh, when you hear the starter going, and I see the engine It's in the oil and it's a business and it's a start-up started to started when you have the crank of a starter. interesting tonight, Lord. What did Mandela be? Landon de la papa le get just to show her a pirate David the big his social madonna. I see a foundation being laid. I see a foundation being laid concern in this is a concern in this. The time frame is up. The time frame in on the surface on the surface it looks as gold is sand. The foundation like it's gold. It's a gold. It's gold foundation for the glory. It looks like the gold. I see a foundation that has been cleared. I see a foundation that has been cleared and there's levels to it. There's this one level that goes down and it's a circle. circle. It's a circle, a vast circle. And then there's levels to this foundation with this gold. It's the glory. It's the glory. It's sparkling with sparkles. It's sparkles like glitter all over it. This glitter foundation. I hear the word Mohadigan. Am I saying that right? The Mohads, the Mohads, the Moids, the moids, the moids in time, the moids, the pointed times, the moids, the moids. I believe Sister Billy uses this word, Moids, moids. It's something to do with the harbinger and moids. And the Lord said, it's the time frame is up. This time frame of what you're looking for is up. and I see it concerning the Harbingers. Harbingers, Harbingers, I see Jonathan Cons face, and I see September the 11th of this time frame, concerning ground zero, 9.11, ground zero, a new ground zero, and I see Harbingers, and I see time is up. And then, but the down here is a flickering light of something new with a black thing that's coming to it. It looks like it's trying to power on, but there is a level that you know whenever you see a foundation of concrete that is perfectly smooth and level. This is the most beautiful concrete floor of gold, like golden foundation that is being uncovered. And I could see this, it looked like it would be, it'd been like, but it was so smooth and there was layers of glory to it. The foundation has layers to it. But the first sub four, the beautiful floor of this before it went up in a golden curb, like a golden, like it was a beautiful round circle that was completely even, like, perfect. And it went up into another one, and the Lord said, that's what you're praying into. But I could see the flag, I could see America and decisions that are being made. And then I saw a two year window, a two year, but I saw financial blessing that looked like column, you know, like not column binds, Combines, harvesters, harvester equipment. I saw Combine, like big John Deere Combine. Call it, they were cultivating, calling, bring it it in. Bring it it in. But the Lord said, this is finances too. And then I saw nine, but before that, I saw 1930s, 1929 crash. But I saw call a big combine, a shot in the arm, finances, a timeframe, praying into the timeframes, for a wealth transfer, praying into this wealth transfer, and the harbingers. Did I say it right, son? Moeads. This is the most important word of the night. Moads. Moads. This is what I hear him echoes in my ear. Moads. Harbingers. The Moads are coming. It's over. Time is up. Time. Moads. Appointed times. concerning the Harbingers, the Shmeetha cycle. Bring over into the Shmeetha cycle. There is a this is a harvesting time. The Lord gonna give us two years. Watch what God does. But I care that my C-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-B-B-B-B-B-B-B, It's a harvest time, it's a harvest time, this will be the greatest harvest of the times, harvest time for the harvesters, the harvesters and the harvesters. Then I see, I see the harvesters, and the green the key of a no-sur-ra-de-con-no-sur-da. Eh, buddh-u! Eh-wu! Eh, buddh-u! Eh, pa'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'na'. Oh, pulling in you. I let Mosea tie. And I see great silos. The great, there's two. There's two twin silos. There's two those-those-those multi-clond-e- Elemo kick all along all by A4DC A4DC A4DC A6 A6 A6 A6 A6 A6 A6 A6 A6 Let Buddha rule know how to do it in the mosquitos. In the mosquitos it's all the mosquitos and the mosquitos and the mosquitos and the mosquitos and the mosquitos. in the Ocero, Etimo Saro, Eto Moro Saro. I love O' Coro Borato, I talk O' Rebus tonight. Any name I'm coming tonight. Eti le battale, battale, battale. Hey, c'est ta ta ta, le motore, battale. Hmm. Yandan, d'Anglopo. Lord say, this is what I called you to pray it through. Pray through, and deduce, deduce, deduce, deduce, depala, ed deduce, depala, Ecosola, pala, dequeci, a tucusta, for the greatest harvest you'll see, the greatest harvest you'll see, the greatest manifestations of my glory, the greatest metaphor, the harvest, the harvest, the harvest, the harvest, the harvest that you're about to see, the harvest that you're praying and you're praying into the harvest. You're praying into the harvest. Leningle Han, Leningle Han, Leningle Han, Leningle O' Palaste, Leningle Ambole O' Polo, Polo Parle, Cabo Dei's Separatu. Roll, roll, roll, roll, roll. Ye Kado Ousosore, Polo, Polo, Polo, Polo, Boo, from Nindingar, Gingar, A M'Komba, hes talking about Russia, Shanna. Russia, Russia, go Shashina, Ro-Rot-Rot-Rot-ne-ka-do, Uh oh oh, Bavika, the Eckistate. No, no, no, in Yonkapore, Eeeeeen, the Moeds, The Poinen Times. The, um, moeds. Moeds, Moeds? They're the appointed times. Watch these appointed times. Watch these appointed times. think they're gonna make you... She's surrounded by events. They'll be surrounded by events. I see an acceleration. An acceleration. An acceleration around these events. It's God's calendar, the brain, it's what He says. this was my calendar. It's harvest time. It's the harbingers. Don't get out ahead of me above the time, stay in sync with me concerning the time. I'll just stay and say, like a soldier, march, march, march to the beat, stop, to stop a destipu fa'ala, stay and sink with me, stay and sink with me, march to the beat, march to the beat. Don't get out ahead of me, stay and sink with me. Estasub! Eh, me tute supa! Condunumumum. Grichare des. Condalala'i tala'lubu palu patalemus, Estoucesta'i bada'l a'abu'e'bua'e'bua'e'bua'e'bua'e'bua'e'bua'e'bua'e'bua'e'bua'e'bua'e'bada'a'a'a'a. I go to nangaroore estasustustustustibapan. Braa l'anore. Bah'imore. There we go. So Bra-bat bat bat – You knoweltobradi, but I just need a few of you to take the land. Mm hmm, I just need a few of you to take the land. It's not about the vast numbers. I just need a few of you to take the land. The harvest is plentiful and the labors are a few. I just need a few of you to take the land. It's not about the numbers. It's not about the numbers. in the world harvest. It's not about the numbers concerned in the world harvest. Do you understand? that comes on a diseased. Crate de Beste disturbing You understand, that's what he said. Just a few with a backbone across the land He doesn't have to have vast numbers. He just has to have a yielded'. Yes, There's many here, there's many here tonight. There's many here tonight. That we could, just with what we have here tonight could change the world with just a yielded yes. I don't know how many is here tonight, but I'm gonna tell you this. I know this that just as many as here tonight could change the world, 8,000. Just think what 8,000 of you could do if ever single one of you is a yielded Yes, I send me, Lord, all 8,000 of you. God could change the nations just through this number. You see, well, there's 8 million. Well, there's 8,000 here. There's 8 million people, Brennan. There's so many people that know him, but there's 8,000 here. He doesn't need a whole lot. No, God, here am I, use me. It's the harbingers. It's the moeds. It's the timeframes. I see Jonathan Kahn's face even right now. I see it. There's new books. There's new things. But there's something about this next book. There's writer block and the devil doesn't want him to finish it. There's something if he hasn't started it yet. There's something there. I see a faucet. And he'll stand underneath an open heaven. but it's concern in CHP. It's interesting. With John Kilpatrick, again, like I said, the Lord has this church on my heart a lot, praying for this congregation, praying, and I'm probably 600, 700 miles away from these people, but I pray for these people, the same with Missouri, Branson, Manson and Sister Billy and Minnesota, there is a major revival coming to Minnesota. There's a major move of God coming to New York. I believe it. They might be dark, but I'm telling you, God is about to do something huge. And all of it takes us somebody. It took one Billy Graham, but Billy Graham had his time. Who is here for this next generation, this right now? There's something about 9-11 with this Moead, the Moeads, it's something about 9-11. I see a new ground zero, I see a flag, I see America burning, I saw it burning, I saw fire, I saw it. You know how the soldiers put the flag up and they put it on the hill, and I believe it was in Korea, the the Korean War. And the soldiers put the flag up on the hill. That's the way it looks like on this. That's the Shushu Shushu and then the Mothariti. Oh God, do it again. Shake the church, Lord. Hold back no more. Shake the church, shake the elders, shake the young, shake it off, Father, and let's go home. Bring in the harvest, Lord. One last call. One last call, Lord. One last call. That's it. What is that? Put it on my backroom. That's the way it is in the spirit realm. Do you understand? We're sticking it. Kari Mosul Ratu, kari Mosul Ratu, Badi Lee Di Kla Pahra Madtala Barrebeke Shaseyati Motabove Konama. Yesa Shesu Sh Stroma Nandaapat, Arrebeke Shesu Shasey Konomua. Yes, Shasey Kamamore, Shake Mow Lord, Shake Mow, Wake hem up, Wake hem up. Wake him up, Lord. Wake him up, Father. Shake him across the land, shake him across the land, Lord. I've given you this time, what will you do at this time? The dispensation of grace is coming to an end. What will you do with the time that I have given you? What will you do with the time that I have given you? I extended the time. He had extended the time. And now that I see that, do you know the sound, sand and the glass, it's over. I had extended the time, he said, it's just barely, it's golden. I see a golden sand that's sparkling of gold. And it's barely there. You know like when it's right at the very end and you can see where the pull, where the pull, the pit, the pull, the pit, I can see it going through there and it's golden and it's just barely there, just barely and it's pulling. This is the time. It's we're closing this up, we're closing it up. What will you do with the time that I have given you? Every day is precious, every, every hour, every minute, every second is precious. What will you do with the time I have given you? It's interesting because there's something about the 15th, about the 15th, 25th, 2015. It's that time frame of it right now to there. 2015, 2016, they're there that it went from there. Here we are in 2026, 2027. What about that webby 12 years? 2015 to 2020, 2020 until until, uh, we're no. How many that be 11 years this year? What is it about 2015? Oh, seven and seven is 14, huh? Okay, so seven and seven from 15, two time periods of two Shmeet Disciples. It's two years. It's a clock, it's a countdown. You get that? When that be, so 20, is that a 12 years? That's just me trying to think it out in my mind what I'm seeing, okay? So 12, 13, 14, 7, 14, hmm? Two years because he said a two year window praying over this from 9.11, huh? Praying into 9.11. Now, this is just me talking y'all, so don't throw rocks at me. I just was talking because I see the hourglass, and he said, I'm giving you a harvest. I see the combineers. He said, bring in the harvest. And when I had the visitation, I went to, and I saw heaven about a month ago, two months ago, brother Hagen said, the revival will last for two years. What will you do with the time for it, Mohad's? What will you do with the time frame on God's clock? I saw a foundation for the glory. September the 11th of 2020, Rosh Hashan, Rosh Hashanah, Rosh Hashanah. What is it about the Harbingers? It's the, so it would be a two year window between the Shmeet to cycle up in 2028, right? That is at the 14 years, 714? Yes, because he pointed out the 7th, the 15th, 2015. He said, I've extended your time. I sing praises to your name. Oh, Lord, Jesus to your name. Oh, Lord, closing of old chapters. Closing of old chapters. Getting ready for a brand new and this, this is the final chapter. This is it, they'll revival. This is it. The great, I saw those, when I was looking at Jonathan Khan's face in the, in the spirit room, I saw fireworks. This is the finale. This is the finale. I saw harvesters, the combines. Massive combines and the feet, the fields were wheat fields as far as the eye could see. And he said, it's not about the numbers. You're worried about, well, how many? No, there's 8,000 here. There's 8 billion, just think about that. I don't know what that is, divided into body else because that I'm not gonna math like that in my mind without dying here, but you know, one person per, one person per, how many, as a million, or no, no, 800, wow, that's a lot. My mind goes, woo, 100 million. Is that 100 million? 8,100 millions, correct? Is that 8,100 millions? So every 1,000 people get 100 million people in. Is that right? Why not? September the 11th of 2015 was the 14th anniversary of 9,11, 2029. So it's the Schmitt Discycle. That's the end of the Schmitt Discycle. It begins in 2028 to 2029. That's the end of the Shmeet Discycle, the end of it. That's the closing of it, of September the 11th of 2029. Is that correct? A million people? So it's only a million. We can do that. If all 8,000 get a million people, yeah, tell you bread and this math's not very good, but I got close without having my phone with me. But praise the Lord. We have a window. What will you do with the time I've given you? Are you trying to tell me though the rapture's coming anytime soon? I believe it's coming sooner than you think. And if the Lord's prompted me about the harvest, bring in the harvest, he said, I've extended your time. I extended the time and now it's done. This dispensation of grace is coming to an end. What does that tell you? And he said, the harbinger, the moweds, they're coming to an end, this, the time frame. Watch this. So I don't know if John Conn's gonna write another book, but there's something to do with church of his presence. I don't know if he'll preach it there. If there's some kind of major meeting that will happen there on 9-11, I don't know, but there's something significant with Johnathan Conn tonight of what we're praying for. And praying for John Kilpatrick again, which is amazing. September the 20th of the 20th, 28th through September the 9th, the 20th, 29th. Yes, this should meet the cycle. That's amazing, isn't it, it be? That's 19, Israel became a nation in 1963, right? And they are recognized in 1940, I believe this. They became a nation in 1940. Something is 63, the Youngcorpore War. I believe this was the Six Day War, 1948, yeah, 48, and then 60 something happened major. Is there a Youngcorpore War, I believe is what it was? 67, 19, no, it was in 1970s. It was in the 60s, I believe. Right, y'all are better at this than me. There's something about the time frames. So it might have been 1973, but there was something also that the president acknowledged them in the 60s, I believe. Something happened that was important. Okay, so 1967. So that's what we're going from the Shmeen to cycle of this. Is that correct? Right? But from 9-11, because I saw a ground zero, and I don't want to keep speculating, because you'll mess things up. But I'm just, I try to, this is what I do after camera when you all are not on. And Braden and I bounce things off each other and we talk as we like. I love numbers, I love what the Lord's saying because He is so precise. He even has a book in the Bible called Numbers. So he loves numbers, too. You know, he gets into numbers. I love just thinking about his return. I get excited about it. And so I just see hearing weed bounce things off. What do you think he's saying? Do you think he's coming here? When do you think he's coming? I'm looking forward to him. Do you not look forward to our friend? He's our savior, he's looking forward to us. There's so many of you, if you die tonight, you don't even have a clue about what I'm talking about. you don't even have relationship with Jesus, but you won't even make it in the rapture. You won't even make it to heaven. You're bound to hell because you don't know Him. There's a heaven to gain and a hell to shun tonight, ladies and gentlemen, I'm telling you, this might be your appointed time. And if you're here tonight and you've never asked Jesus Christ to be your Lord and personal savior, why we're so excited is because He has changed our life. He's the best thing that's ever happened to us. our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And if you don't know Him, you are so lost and you want, and tonight's your night to be found. You can be blind, but now you can see. Tonight's your night. Don't take another moment. You may not have another opportunity. This could be your last opportunity. The very shoes you put on today to go to work. The undertaker might be taking them off that night. Tonight might be your last opportunity. And you could be here to say, Brandon, would you please pray for me? It would be an honor to pray for you. We love you. We pray for every single one of you to come to the saving knowledge of Lord Jesus Christ. But tonight's your night. If you're here tonight and you tell me, Brandon, will you please pray for me? I want to re-dedicate my life to Christ. I want to come home. I've been wayward, I've been sinned and I've been doing wrong and I know I've been wrong and I want to come home tonight. Tonight's my night. I want to rededicate my heart to Jesus Christ. I want to be all in. As I see the signs of the times all around me, I want to rededicate my heart to Jesus. Could you please pray for me? And so if that's you, I want you to put in the comment section right now. Tonight's my night, I want to be saved. Tonight's my night, I'm coming home and just say this simple prayer. Say Jesus, I believe you are the Son of God. I believe you died for me and you rose again on the third day. Jesus, I'm a sinner and I need a savior. I repent of my sins. I ask you to forgive me of my sins. The Bible said, if I confess my sins, you are faithful and just to forgive me of my sins and cleanse me of all unrighteousness. As of tonight, I turn my back on my sin. I turn my back on the devil and the sin I was committed. I say, devil, I no longer years, I belong to Jesus. I turn my back on false religion, like Muhammad or Buddha or some other false God. I do not serve it anymore. I will only serve you Jesus Christ. Jesus, I ask you to write my name in the Lamb's book of life. From this day forward, I dedicate my life to you. I dedicate my heart. I dedicate my mind, my emotions, I dedicate everything to you. It's all yours. Have your way in me, Lord. Thank you, Lord, that if I was to die now, I'll be with you and paradise forever, for you have forgiven me of my sins, and I receive it by faith. And Jesus name what you did for me on that cross. Thank you, Lord, that I am no longer a sinner, but I am saved by grace, And I am so thankful for what you did for me, Lord. Amen and amen. And if you say, Lord, I used to be wayward, but tonight, tonight I'm coming home. I'm coming home, Lord. I love you in Jesus' name. I believe you just said that prayer as simple as it may be. I believe you are once lost, but now you're found. You are blind, but now you do see he saved a rich like me and he saved you. Jesus loves you. And so I want you to get in the comments, actually tell everybody I got saved or whatever. And find a Bible-believing church. Like I'm talking about, you know, church of his presence or Collinsville, you can go to glorious church. There's so many good churches. You know, I want you to go and get plugged in, get radically, read your Bible every day, get baptized, go tell the pastor there, I wanna be water baptized, get water baptized, get radically involved in that church. And it will change your life from the inside out. Read the Bible every day and pray. If you don't have a Bible, we will buy you your first Bible for free. All you have to do is email us in the description down below and just say, hey, I gotta save watching you. Can I have my free Bible? And my wife and I will send you a Bible. We're behind on the Bibles. There's been a lot of salvation, but we are getting caught up, and we will send these out to you. We want to rejoice with your decision tonight to accept Jesus Christ, but you've got to read that Bible. It will change you from the inside out. And the more you read it, the more it will change it. The entrance of his word brings forth light. And if you're struggling with sin, if you're struggling with things, get this word, the Bible that says that you'll know the truth and the truth will set you free. It's the Word of God that will set you free. I don't know how many counselors we can go to, you can get on all kinds of things that try to help dope you down, but I'm telling you the more you get in this word, the Word of God will change you from the inside out. I'm telling you, it will change you. You say, well, I don't believe that, try it. Try it for 30 days. Read the Bible for 30 days and be consistent for 30 days. Read Proverbs, read Psalms, whatever. You could read 31 days of Proverbs, read a chapter every day for 31 days. Read that all and get it down inside of you and it will change you. And you're gonna go, Brandon, my life is forever changed because of this. Do it for 30 days and see, a 30 day challenge. Watch what see what God does. So we just wanna love on you and tell you, thank you for being here. I don't know how many people got saved tonight. How many got saved? Oh, Braden's counting him. He's doing his tally. So thank you for being here. Don't you get excited about the soon coming of the Lord Jesus Christ? I don't know. I just, that's what we meditate around here. We just go, oh Jesus, when are you coming to get us? We're so excited. We occupied until again. All 29 of you that gave your heart to Jesus Christ tonight, welcome home. All 29 of you at 11.02 at night. 29 people got born again. And so we're thankful for every single one of you that we're so excited to you. Like, subscribe, be part of our YouTube channel. Come back and pray with us. All 29 of you. We're excited about you being here. So praise the Lord. Well, did this bless you tonight? I don't, I think that's about it. I'm excited to see what the Lord, what else he shows us, because I just, interesting. I love this. Moeds, Moids, Moids, Harbingers. What is the name underneath Harbinger that needs to be lit up? Well praise the Lord. We love y'all, thank you for joining us tonight. I've kept you extra long, but that's okay. I'm glad you're here. I'm glad you're here. And I pray you got refreshed. We started a little earlier, so we didn't let you burn the midnight oil. So, but we'll be back again tomorrow. And until then, put a smile on your face and a song in your heart. Jesus loves you so much that we love you. God bless you all and we'll see you again soon. Bye-bye.
