Timestamp: 2026-05-21T13:21:35.605305
Title: Atlas - This 1-hour MIT lecture on Time Series Analysis will teach you more a... 2057185630174773280
URL: https://x.com/crptAtlas/status/2057185630174773280?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 1:15:56

Description:
这是一份针对该统计学与时间序列分析讲座内容的深度解析。

---

### **第一部分：作者蓝图 (Author's Map)**

**1. 核心主张 (Core Thesis)**
统计建模的核心在于通过最大似然估计（MLE）和时间序列分析（如 ARMA/ARIMA 模型）对动态数据进行参数化表示，从而在数学上捕捉变量间的相关性及随时间演变的随机规律。

**2. 论据基础 (Evidentiary Base)**
*   **数学定理**：正态线性回归模型、Wold 表示定理（任何协方差平稳过程的分解）、Yule-Walker 方程。
*   **统计方法**：最小二乘法（OLS）与 MLE 的等价性推导、似然函数、滞后算子（Lag Operator）、差分运算。
*   **案例研究**：GE 与埃克森美孚（Exxon Mobil）的股票收益率与市场及原油因子的回归分析；人民币（CNY）汇率篮子的回归分析。

**3. 逻辑授权 (Logical Warrant)**
作者通过从静态回归（MLE 估计）推导到动态时间序列（平稳性与自相关），运用了**演绎推理**。他首先确立了参数估计的偏差问题（n vs n-p），随后将其扩展到时间维度，利用 Wold 定理证明了复杂随机过程可以被简化为白噪声的线性组合。

**4. 确立范围 (Stated Scope)**
*   **适用领域**：正态线性回归、协方差平稳随机过程、单变量时间序列。
*   **限制边界**：明确指出 MLE 在小样本下对误差方差的估计是有偏的；模型选择需在复杂度和拟合优度间权衡（AIC/BIC）。

**5. 隐含对手 (Implicit Opponent)**
*   **过度拟合论者**：那些认为模型参数越多越好的人（作者强调了 n-p 自由度校正的重要性）。
*   **直觉投资者**：认为股票收益是随机且无规律的人（作者通过因子模型展示了可解释的系统性风险）。
*   **忽视非平稳性的人**：直接对非平稳数据建模会导致伪回归，作者提出了差分（Integration）的必要性。

**6. 预期效果 (Intended Takeaway)**
学习者应掌握如何从原始数据中识别平稳性，选择合适的 ARMA/ARIMA 阶数，并理解金融资产定价（如 CAPM）背后的回归逻辑及其统计局限性。

---

### **第二部分：冷峻且公平的评析 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair REVIEW)**

**1. 强力辩护 (Steelman)**
该讲座成功地将高度抽象的数学定理（如 Wold 表示定理）与具体的金融实践（资产定价模型）缝合在一起。它不仅仅传授公式，更解释了统计估计中“有偏性”与“自由度”的深刻内涵，为学生构建了一个从静态到动态建模的严谨认知框架。

**2. 最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)**
> “我们假设误差项是独立同分布的正态随机变量。”

这是整场讲座的阿喀琉斯之踵。金融时间序列（如讲座中提到的 GE 股票）具有著名的“肥尾”特征和波动率聚集（Volatilty Clustering）。在误差项不符合正态分布的现实世界中，基于正态假设的 MLE 估计量虽具有一致性，但在有限样本下的效率和假设检验（T 检验）的可靠性会大打折扣。

**3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)**
讲座在讨论 GE 和埃克森美孚案例时，使用了简单的线性回归。然而，它忽略了**结构性突破（Structural Breaks）**。例如，原油价格对 GE 的影响在不同经济周期或能源政策下可能发生剧变。使用全样本回归会掩盖参数的时变性，导致“平均后的错误”。

**4. 隐藏前提 (Hidden Premises)**
*   **前提 A**：历史规律在统计意义上会重复（平稳性假设）。
*   **前提 B**：模型选择标准（AIC/BIC）能完美解决过度拟合问题。
*   **追问**：如果市场是动态博弈的，一旦某个因子模型（如油价因子）被广泛知晓，其预测力是否会立即坍塌？

**5. 盲区 (The Blind Side)**
讲座完全忽略了**非线性关系**和**条件异方差（GARCH）**。在金融建模中，均值方程（ARMA）只是一半，方差方程（波动率）往往更重要。此外，讲座提到的差分方法（Box-Jenkins）虽然能处理单位根，但可能会丢失长期均衡信息（协整关系），这是现代计量经济学无法回避的盲点。

**6. 一击必杀 (One Hit Kill)**
如果正如讲座所述，最大似然估计在参数较多时存在严重偏差，且金融数据普遍存在非正态性，那么在样本量有限且存在噪声的实时交易环境中，这些精密设计的 ARMA 模型是否真的比一个简单的“随机游走（Random Walk）”模型更具预测价值？

**7. 如何定论 (What Would Settle It)**
进行一项**样本外预测实验（Out-of-sample Test）**：将数据分为训练集和测试集，对比 ARIMA 模型与朴素随机游走模型在预测未来 10 天收益率上的均方误差（MSE）。如果 ARIMA 不能显著胜出，那么这些复杂的数学推导在实践中便只是“统计修辞”。

---

### **第三部分：概念关系图 (Mermaid Conceptual Map)**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    subgraph SG1["📊 估计理论 (Estimation Foundation)"]
        direction TB
        MLE["<b>最大似然估计 (MLE)</b><br/>核心思想: 使观测数据出现概率最大化"]
        OLS["<b>最小二乘法 (OLS)</b><br/>等价于正态假设下的 MLE"]
        Bias["<b>估计偏差</b><br/>方差估计需校正为 n-p"]
        MLE -- "等价性" --> OLS
        MLE -- "现实挑战" --> Bias
    end

    subgraph SG2["📈 时间序列核心 (Time Series Core)"]
        direction TB
        Stationary["<b>协方差平稳性</b><br/>均值、方差、自协方差不随时间改变"]
        Wold["<b>Wold 表示定理</b><br/>平稳过程 = 确定性成分 + 移动平均成分"]
        Lag["<b>滞后算子 (L)</b><br/>数学表达工具: L*Xt = Xt-1"]
        Stationary -- "理论支撑" --> Wold
        Wold -- "数学实现" --> Lag
    end

    subgraph SG3["🛠️ ARMA/ARIMA 模型库"]
        direction TB
        AR["<b>自回归 (AR)</b><br/>当前值取决于过去值"]
        MA["<b>移动平均 (MA)</b><br/>当前值取决于过去误差"]
        Integration["<b>差分 (I)</b><br/>处理非平稳性 (单位根)"]
        ARIMA["<b>ARIMA (p, d, q)</b><br/>整合模型"]
        AR & MA --> ARIMA
        Integration -- "预处理" --> ARIMA
    end

    subgraph SG4["⚠️ 批判性审视 (Hostile Review)"]
        direction TB
        Crit1["<b>正态性假设陷阱</b><br/>金融数据多为肥尾而非正态"]
        Crit2["<b>模型选择悖论</b><br/>AIC/BIC 能选出最简模型但非最真模型"]
        Crit3["<b>预测失效</b><br/>在有效市场中 ARMA 常输给随机游走"]
    end

    SG1 -- "参数估计" --> SG3
    SG2 -- "平稳性要求" --> SG3
    SG3 -- "面临挑战" --> SG4

    %% 样式定义
    classDef main fill:#FFF9C4,stroke:#FBC02D,stroke-width:2px,color:#333
    classDef theory fill:#E1F5FE,stroke:#01579B,stroke-width:2px,color:#01579B
    classDef model fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20
    classDef review fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#C62828,stroke-width:2px,color:#B71C1C

    class MLE,OLS,Bias main
    class Stationary,Wold,Lag theory
    class AR,MA,Integration,ARIMA model
    class Crit1,Crit2,Crit3 review

    style SG1 fill:#FFFDE7,stroke:#FFF59D
    style SG2 fill:#E1F5FE,stroke:#81D4FA
    style SG3 fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#A5D6A7
    style SG4 fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#EF9A9A
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
Well, last time I was lecturing, we were talking about regression analysis and we finished up talking about estimation methods for fitting regression models. I want to recap the method of maximum likelihood because this is really the primary estimation method in statistical modeling that you start with. So let me just review where we were. We have a normal linear regression model. A dependent variable y is explained by a linear combination of independent variables given by a regression parameter beta. And we assume that there are errors about all the cases which are independent and identically distributed normal random variables. So because of that relationship, the dependent variable vector y, which is an n vector for n cases, is a multivariate normal random variable. Now, the likelihood function is equal to the density function for the data. And there's some ambiguity really about how one manipulates the likelihood function. The likelihood function becomes defined once we've observed a sample of data. So in this expression for the likelihood function as a function of beta and sigma squared, we're considering evaluating the probability density function for the data conditional on the unknown parameters. So if this were simply a univariate normal distribution with some unknown main invariance, then what we would have is just a sort of bell curve for mu centered around a single observation y. If you look at the likelihood function and how it varies with the underlying mean of the normal distribution. So this likelihood function is, well, the challenge really in maximum likelihood estimation is really calculating and computing the likelihood function. And with normal linear regression models is very easy. Now, the maximum likelihood estimates are those values that maximize this function? And the question is, why are those good estimates of the underlying parameters? Well, what those estimates do is they are the parameter values for which the observed data is most likely. So we're able to scale the unknown parameters by how likely those parameters could of generated these data values. So let's look at the likelihood function for this normal linear regression model. These first two lines here are highlighting. The first line is highlighting that our response variable values are independent. They're conditionally independent given the unknown parameters. And so the density of the full vector of y's is simply the product of the density functions for those components. And because this is a normal linear regression model, each of the YIs is normally distributed. So what's in there is simply the density function of a normal random variable with mean given by the beta sum of independent variables for each i, case i, given by the regression parameters. And that expression basically can be expressed in matrix form this way. And what we have is the likelihood function is ends up being a function of our q of beta, which was our least squares criterion. So least squares estimation is equivalent to maximum likelihood estimation for their regression parameters, if we have a normal linear regression model. And there's this extra term minus n. Well, actually, if we're going to maximize the likelihood function, we can also maximize the log of the likelihood function, because there's just a monotone function of the likelihood. And it's easier to maximize the log of the likelihood function, which is expressed here. And so we're able to maximize over beta by minimizing Q of beta, and then we can maximize over sigma squared, given our estimate for beta. And that's achieved by taking the derivative of the log likelihood with respect to sigma squared. So we basically have this forced order condition that finds the maximum because things are appropriately convex. And taking that derivative, we, and solving for zero, We basically get this expression. So this is just taking the derivative of the log likelihood with respect to sigma squared. And you'll notice here I'm taking the derivative with respect to sigma squared as a parameter, not sigma. And that gives us that the maximum likelihood estimate of the error variance is q of beta hat over n. So this is the sum of the squared residuals divided by n. Now, I emphasize here that that's biased. Who can tell me why that's biased or why it ought to be biased? OK. Well, it should be n minus 1 if we're actually estimating 1 parameter. So if the independent variables were, say, a constant 1, so we're just estimating a sample from a normal with mean beta 1, corresponding to the units vector of the x, then we would have a 1 degree correction for 1 degree of freedom correction to the residuals to get an unbiased estimator. But what if we have p parameters? Well, let me ask you this. What if we had n parameters in our regression model? What would happen if we had a full rank independent variable matrix and n independent observations. Yes, you'd have an exact fit to the data. So this estimate would be 0. OK. And so clearly, if the data do arise from a normal linear regression model 0, it's not unbiased, right? And you need to have some correction. It turns out you need to divide by n minus the rank of the x matrix. The degrees of freedom in the model to get a biased estimate. So this is an important issue. It highlights how the more parameters you add in the model, the more precise your fitted values are. In a sense, there's dangers of curve fitting, which you want to avoid. But the maximum likelihood estimates, in fact, are biased. And you just have to be aware of that. And when you're using different software fitting different models, you need to know whether there are various corrections being made for imbiocene or not. So this solves the estimation problem for normal linear regression models. And when we have normal linear regression models, the theorem we went through last time is very important. Let me just go back and and highlight that for you. This theorem right here, this is really the important, a very important theorem, indicating what is the distribution of the least squares now, the maximum likelihood estimates of our regression model, they are normally distributed. And the residuals, some of the squares, have a chi-squared distribution with degrees of freedom given by n minus p. And we can look at how much sort of signal to noise there is in estimating our regression parameters by calculating a T statistic, which is take away from an estimate its expected value, its mean, and divide through by an estimate of the variability in standard deviation units. And that will have a T distribution. So that's a critical way to assess the relevance of different explanatory variables in our model, and this approach will apply with maximum likelihood estimation in all kinds of models apart from normal linear regression models. It turns out maximum likelihood estimates generally are asymptotically, normally distributed. And so these properties here will apply for those models as well. So let's finish up these notes on estimation by talking about generalized M estimation. So what we want to consider is estimating unknown parameters by minimizing some function, Q of beta, which is a sum of evaluations of another function, H, evaluated for each of the individual cases. And choosing h to take on different functional forms will define different kinds of estimators. We've seen how when h is simply the square of the case minus its regression prediction, that leads to least squares. And in fact, maximum likelihood estimation, as we saw before, Rather than taking the square of the sort of residual, the fitted residual, we could take simply the modulus of that. And so that would be the mean absolute deviation. So rather than summing the square deviations from the mean, we could sum the absolute deviations from the mean. Now, from a mathematical standpoint, if we want to solve for those estimates, how would you go about doing that? So what methodology would you use to maximize this function? Well, we'd try and apply basically the same principles of if this is a convex function, then we just want to take derivatives of that and solve for that being equal to zero. So what happens when you take the derivative of the modulus of ym and sex i beta with respect to beta? What did you say? What did you say? Yeah, I just, it's not content. It's not, the first second derivative is not continuous. OK. Well, this is not a smooth function. But if we, let me just plot x i beta here, and y i minus that, basically, this is going to be a function that has slope 1 when it's positive and slope minus 1 when it's negative. And so that will be true component-wise or for the y. So what we end up wanting to do is find the value of the regression estimate that minimizes the sum of predictions that are below the estimate plus the sum of the predictions that are above the estimate given by the regression line. And that solves the problem. Now, with the maximum likelihood estimation, one can plug in minus log the density of yi given beta x in sigma i squared. And that function is simply sums to the log of the joint density for all the data. So that works as well. With robust m estimators, we can consider another function chi, which can be defined to have good properties with estimates. And there's a whole theory of robust estimation. It's very rich, which talks about how best to specify this chi function. Now, one of the problems with least squares estimation is that the squares of very large values are very, very large in magnitude. So there's perhaps an undue influence of very large values, very large residuals in under least squares estimation and max market estimation. So robust estimators allow you to control that by defining the function differently. Finally, there are quantile estimators which extend this sort of mean absolute deviation criterion. And so if we consider the h function to be basically a multiple of the deviation if the residual is positive and a different multiple, sort of a complementary multiple, if the deviation, the residual is less than 0. Then by varying tau, you end up getting quantile estimators where what you're doing is minimizing estimate of the tau quantile. So this general class of M estimators is encompasses most estimators that we will encounter in fitting models. So that finishes the technical or the mathematical discussion of regression analysis. Let me highlight for you, let's see, There's a case study that would drag to the desktop here. And I wanted to find that. OK, let me find that. OK. There's a case study that's been added to the course website. And this first one is on linear regression models for asset pricing. And I want you to read through that just to see how it applies fitting various simple linear regression models. And full screen with this case study begins by introducing the capital asset pricing model, which basically suggests that if you look at the returns on any stocks in an efficient market, then those should depend on the return of the overall market, but scaled by how risky the stock is. And so if one looks at basically what the return is on the stock on the right scale, you should have a simple linear regression model. So here we just look at a time series for a GE stock in the S&P 500. And the case study goes through how you can actually collect this data on the web using R. And so the case notes provide those details. There's also the three month treasury rate, which is collected. And so if you're thinking about return on the stock versus return on the index, well, what's really of interest is the excess return over a risk-free rate. And the efficient markets models, basically, the excess return of a stock is related to the excess is related to the excess return of the market as given by a linear regression model. So we can fit this model. And here's a plot of the excess returns on a daily basis for GE stock versus the market. So that looks like a nice sort of point cloud for which a linear model might fit well. And it does. Well, there are regression diagnostics, which I'll get to in it. Well, there are regression diagnostics which are detailed in the problem set where we're looking at how influential are individual observations, what's their impact on regression parameters. This display here basically highlights with a very simple linear regression model what are the influential data points? And so I've highlighted in red those values which are influential. Now, if you look at the definition of leverage in a linear model, it's very simple. Simple linear model is just those observations that are very far from the mean have large leverage. And so you can confirm that with your answers to the problem set. OK, this x indicates a significantly influential point in terms of the regression parameters given by cook's distance. And that definition is also given in the case notes. By computing the individual averages with a function that's given here, and by selecting out those that exceed a given magnitude. Now with this very, very simple model of stocks, depending on one unknown factor, risk factor given the market, in modeling equity returns, There are many different factors that can have an impact on returns. So what I've done in the case study is to look at adding another factor, which is just the oil, let's see, the return on crude oil. And so let's see, I need to go down here. So let me highlight something for you here. OK, with GE stock, what would you expect the impact of, say, a high return on crude oil to be on the return of GE stock? Would you expect it to be positively related or negatively related? OK. Well, GE is a stock that's just a broad stock invests in many different industries and really reflects sort of the overall market, to some extent, many years ago, probably 10, 15 years ago, It was GE represented maybe 3% of the GMP of the US market. So it was really highly related to how well the market does. Now crude oil is a commodity. And oil is used to drive cars, to fuel energy production. So if you have an increase in oil prices, then the cost of essentially doing business goes out. So associated with an inflation factor, prices are rising. So if you can see here, the regression estimate, if we add in the factor of the return on crude oil, it's negative 0.03, and it has a T value of minus 3.561. So in fact, the market in a sense over this period for this analysis was not efficient in explaining the return on GE crude oil is another independent factor that helps explain returns. So that's useful to know. And if you are clever about defining and identifying and evaluating different factors, you can build factor asset pricing models that are very, very useful for investing in trading. Now, as a comparison to this, this case study also applied the same analysis to Exxon mobile. Exxon mobile is an oil company. So let me highlight this here. We basically are fitting this model now that's highlighted. And here, if we consider this two factor model, the regression parameter corresponding to the crude oil factor is plus 0.13 with a t value of 16. So crude oil definitely has an impact on the return of x on mobile. It basically goes up and down with oil prices. Now let's see, this case study closes with a scatter plot of the independent variables and highlighting where the influential values are. And so just in the same way that with a simple linear aggression, it was those that were far away from the mean of the data were influential in a multivariate setting here. It's bivariate. The influential observations are those that are very far away from the centroid. And if you look at one of the problems in the problem set, It actually goes through and you can see where these leverage values are and how it indicates sort of influence is associated with the Mahalanova's distance of cases from the centroid of the independent variables. So if you're sort of a visual type mathematician, as opposed to an algebraic type mathematician, I think these kinds of graphs are very helpful in understanding what is really going on. And the degree of influence is associated with the fact that we're basically taking least squares estimates, and so we have the quadratic form associated with the overall process. All right, there's another case study that I'll be happy to discuss after class or during office hours. I think we have time today during the lecture, but it concerns exchange rate regimes. And the second case study looks at the Chinese Yuan, which was basically pegged to the dollar for many years. And then, I guess, through political influence from other countries, they started to let the Yuan vary from the dollar but have perhaps pegged it to some basket of security of currencies. And so how would you determine what that basket of currencies is? Well, there are regression methods that have been developed by economists that help you do that, and that case study goes through the analysis of that. So check that out to see how you can get immediate access to currency data and be fitting these regression models and looking at the different results and trying to evaluate those. Let's turn now the main topic, which is time series analysis. Okay, today, in the rest of the lecture, I want to talk about univariate time series analysis. And so we're thinking of basically a random variable that's observed over time, and it's a discrete time process and will introduce you to the world representation theorem and definitions of stationarity and its relationship there. Then look at the classic models of autoregressive moving average models and then extending those to non-stationarity with integrated autoregressive moving average models. And then finally, talk about estimating stationary models and how we test for stationarity. So let's begin from basically first principles. We have a stochastic process, a discrete time stochastic process, x, which is consists of random variables indexed by time, and we're thinking now discrete time. The stochastic behavior of this sequence is determined by specifying the density or probability mass functions for all finite collections of time indexes. So if we could specify all finite dimensional distributions of this process, we would specify this probability model for the stochastic process. Now, this stochastic process is strictly stationary if the density function for any collection of times t1 through tm is equal to the density function with it for a tau translation of that. So the density function for any finite dimensional distribution is stationary is constant under arbitrary translations. So that's a very strong property. But it's a reasonable property to ask for if you're doing statistical modeling. And what do you want to do when you're estimating models? You want to estimate things that are constant. constants are nice things to estimate. And parameters of models are constant, so we really want the underlying structure of the distributions to be the same. The, OK, that was strict stationarity, which requires knowledge of the entire distribution of the stochastic process. We're now going to introduce a weaker definition, which is covariance stationarity. And a covariance stationary process has a constant mean mu, a constant variance sigma squared, and a covariance at over increments tau, given by a function gamma of tau, that is also constant. Gamma isn't a constant function, but basically for all t, covariance of XT, XT plus tau is this gamma tau function. And we also can introduce the autocorrelation function of the stochastic process, rho of tau. And so the correlation of two random variables is the covariance of those random variables divided by the square root of the product of the variances. And Chungbong, I think, introduced that a bit in one of his lectures, where we were talking about the correlation function. But essentially, the correlation function is if you standardize the random variables to have mean zero, so subtract off the means, and then divide through by their standard deviations. So those translated variables have mean zero and variance one. then the correlation coefficient is the covariance between those standardized random variables. So this is going to come up again and again in time series analysis. Now, the world representation theorem is a very, very powerful theorem about covariance stationary processes. It basically states that if we have a zero mean covariance stationary time series, then It can be decomposed into two components at a very nice structure. Basically, xt can be decomposed into vt plus st. vt is going to be a linearly deterministic process, meaning that past values of vt perfectly predict what vt is going to be. So this could be like a linear trend or some fixed function of past values. It's basically a deterministic process. So there's nothing random in VT. It's something that's fixed without randomness. And ST is a sum of coefficients psi i times eta t minus i, where the eta t minus i or the eta t's are linearly unpredictable white noise. So what we have is ST is a weighted average of white noise, with coefficients given by the psi i. And the coefficients psi i, or such that psi 0 is 1. And the sum of the squared psi i's is finite. And the white noise A to T, what's white noise? It has expectation 0. It has variance given by sigma squared that's constant. And it has covariance across different white noise elements that 0 for all t and s. So eta t are uncorrelated with themselves, and of course, they are uncorrelated with the deterministic process. So this is really a very, very powerful concept. If you are modeling a process and has covariance stationarity, then there exists a representation like this of the function. So it's a very compelling structure, which we'll see how it applies in different circumstances. Now, before getting into the definition of autoregressive moving average models, I just want to give you an intuitive understanding of what's going on with the world decomposition. And this, I think, will help motivate why the world decomposition should exist from a mathematical standpoint. So consider just some univariate stochastic process, sometimes series X t that we want to model. And we believe that it's covariant stationary. And so we want to specify essentially the wall decomposition of that. Well, what we could do is initialize a parameter p, the number of past observations, in the linearly deterministic term, and then estimate the linear projection of xt on the last p lag values. And so what I want to do is consider estimating that relationship using a sample of size N with some ending point T0 less than or equal to T. And so we can consider why values like a response variable being given by the successive values of our time series. And so our response variables yj can be considered to be xt0 minus n plus j, and define a y vector and a z matrix as follows. So we have values of our stochastic process in y. And then our z matrix, which is essentially a matrix of independent variables, is just the lagged values of this process. So let's apply ordinarily squares to specify the projection. This projection matrix should be familiar now. And that basically gives us a prediction of y hat depending on p-legs. And we can compute the projection residual from that fit. Well, we can conduct time series methods to analyze these residuals, which will be introducing here in a few minutes. To specify a moving average model, we can then have estimates of the underlying coefficients psi and estimates of these residuals, a to t. And then we can evaluate whether this is a good model or not. OK, does it mean to be an appropriate model? Well, the residuals should be orthogonal to longer lags than t minus s, or longer lags than p. So we basically shouldn't have any dependence of our residuals on lags of the stochastic process that weren't included in the model. Those should be orthogonal. And the eta t hats should be consistent with white noise. So those issues can be evaluated. And if there's evidence otherwise, then we can change the specification of the model. We can add additional lags. We can add additional deterministic variables if we can identify what those might be and proceed with this process. But essentially, that is how the world decomposition could be implemented. And theoretically, as our sample gets large, if we're observing this time series for a long time, then the limit, well certainly the limit of the projections as p, the number of lags we include, gets large, should be essentially the projection of our data on its history. And that in fact is the projection corresponding to defining the coefficients psi i. And so in the limit, that projection will converge, and it will converge in the sense that the coefficients of the projection definition correspond to the psi i. And now, if p goes to infinity is required, now, p means that there's basically a long-term dependence in the process. I mean, it does depend on, basically it doesn't stop at a given lag, it just, the dependence, it persists over time. Then we may require that P goes to infinity. Now what happens when P goes to infinity? Well, and if you let P go to infinity too quickly, you run out of degrees of freedom to estimate your models. And so from an implementation standpoint, you need to let P over n go to 0 so that you have essentially more data per observation, more data than parameters that you're estimating. So that becomes real. And in time series modeling, what we look for are models where finite values of p are required. So we're only estimate a finite number of parameters. Or if we have a moving average model which has coefficients that are infinite number, Perhaps those can be defined by a small number of parameters. So we'll be looking for that kind of feature in different models. Let's turn to talking about the lag operator. The lag operator is a fundamental tool in time series models. We consider the operator L that shifts the time series back by one time increment And applying this operator recursively, we get if it's operating zero times, there's no lag. One time there's one lag, two times two lags, doing that iteratively. And in thinking of these, what we're dealing with is like a transformation on infinite dimensional space where it's like the identity matrix sort of shifted by one element, or not the identity, but an element. Well, it's like the identity matrix shifted by one column, or two columns. So anyway, inverses of these operators are well-defined in terms of what we get from them. So if we can represent the world representation in terms of these lag operators by saying that our stochastic process XT is equal to VT plus this psi of l function basically a functional of the lag operator, which is a potentially infinite order polynomial of the lags. So this notation is something that you need to get very familiar with if you are going to be comfortable with the different models that are introduced with ARMA and Arima models. Any questions about that? OK. OK, now relating to this, let me just introduce now because this will come up somewhat later. But there's the impulse response function of the covariant stationary process. OK, if we have a stochastic process x t, which is given by this world representation, then you can ask yourself, what happens when there's what happens to the innovation at time t, which is a to t? How does that affect the process over time? And so, OK, pretend that you are chairman of the Fair Reserve Bank, and you're interested in GNP, or there's an economic growth. And you're considering changing interest rates to help the economy. Well, you'd like to know what an impact is of your change in this factors, how that's going to affect the variable of interest, perhaps G and P. Now, in this case, we're thinking of just a simple covariance stationary stochastic process. There's no, it's basically a process that is a random, a weighted sum, a moving average of innovations at a T. But the question is, basically, any covariance stationary process can be represented in this form. And the impulse response function relates to what is the impact of A to T? What's its impact over time? Basically, it affects the process at time T. That, because of the moving average process, it affects it at T plus 1, it affects it at T plus 2. And so this impulse response is basically the derivative of the value of the process with the j previous innovation is given by psi j. So the different innovations have an impact on the current value given by this impulse response function. So looking backward, that definition is pretty well defined. But you can also think about how does an impact of the innovation affect the process going forward. And the long run cumulative response is essentially what is the impact of that innovation in the process, ultimately. And eventually, it's not going to change the value of the process. But what is the value to which the process is moving because of that one innovation? And so the long-term cumulative response is given by basically the sum of these individual ones and it's given by the sum of the psi i's. So that's the polynomial of psi with lag operator, were placed lag operator by one. We'll see this again when we talk about vector auto-regressive processes with multivariate time series. All right. Now, the walled representation, which is an infinite order moving average, possibly infinite order, can have an auto-regressive representation. Suppose that there is another polynomial psi i star of the lags, which we're going to call psi inverse of l, which satisfies the fact that if you multiply that with psi of l, you get the identity, lag 0. Then this psi inverse, if that exists, is basically the inversion of this psi of l, is the inverse of the psi of l. So if we start with psi of l, if that's invertible, then there exists a psi inverse of l with coefficients psi i star. And one can basically take our original expression forward the stochastic process, which is as this moving average of the atas, and express it as this, essentially, moving averages of the axis. And so we've essentially inverted the process and show that the stochastic process can be expressed as an infinite order autoregressive representation. And so this infinite order autoregressive representation corresponds to that intuitive understanding of how the world representation exists. And it actually works with the regression coefficients in that projection several slides back corresponds to this inverse operator. So let's turn to some specific time series models that are widely used. The class of autoregressive moving average processes has this mathematical definition. We define the x t to be equal to a linear combination of lags of x going back p lags with coefficients phi 1 through phi p. And then there are residuals, which are expressed in terms of a cute order moving average. So in this framework, the A to T's are white noise. And white noise to reiterate is mean 0, constant variance, 0 covariance between those. In this representation, I've simplified things a little bit by subtracting off the mean from all of the x's. And that just makes the formulas a little bit more simpler. Now with lag operators, we can write this armor model as phi of l, a p-th order polynomial of lag l, given with coefficients 1 phi 1 up to phi p. And theta of l, given by 1 theta 1 theta 2 up to theta q. And the wall decomposition has this, well, OK. The wall decomposition, OK, this is basically a representation of the armatime series model. Basically, we're taking a set of lags of the independent of the values of the stochastic process up to order p. And that's equal to a weighted average of the eta t's. If we multiply by the inverse of phi of l if that exists, then we get this representation here, which is simply the wall decomposition. So the armor models, basically have a wall decomposition, if this phi of l is invertible, they'll explore these by looking at simpler cases of the armor models by just focusing on autoregressive models first and then moving average processes second so that you'll get a better feel for how these things are manipulated and interpreted. So let's move on to the pth order autoregressive process. So we're going to consider armor models that just have autoregressive terms in them. And so we have phi of l, xt minus mu is equal to a to t, which is white noise. So a linear combination of the series is white noise. And x t follows then a linear regression model on explanatory variables, which are lags of the process x. And this can be expressed as x t equal to c plus the sum from 1 to p of phi j x t minus j, which is a linear regression model with regression parameters phi j. And c, the constant term, is equal to mu times phi of 1. Now if you basically take expectations of the process, you basically have coefficients of mu coming in from all the terms. And phi of 1 times mu is the regression coefficient there. All right. So with this autoregressive model, we now want to go over what are the stationarity conditions. Certainly, this autoregressive model is one where, well, a simple random walk is follows an autoregressive model, but it's not stationary. We'll highlight that in a minute as well. But if you think about it, that's true. And so stationarity is something to be understood and evaluated. OK, this polynomial function phi, where if we replace the lag operator L by z, a complex variable, the equation phi of z equal to 0 is the characteristic equation associated with this autoregressive model. And it turns out that we'll be interested in the roots of this characteristic equation. Now, if we consider writing phi of l as a function of the roots of the equation, we get this expression where you'll notice if you multiply all those terms out, the ones all multiply out together and you get 1. And with the lag operator l to the pth power, that would be the product of 1 over lambda 1 times 1 over lambda 2, or actually negative 1 over lambda 1 times negative 1 over lambda 2, and so forth out there, negative 1 over lambda. But, you know, basically, if there are p roots to this equation, this is how it would be written out. And the covariance, or the process xt is covariance station, if not only if all the roots of this characteristic equation lie outside the unit circle. So what does that mean? That means that the norm modulus of the complex z is greater than 1. So they're outside the unit circle, where it's less than or equal to 1. And the roots, if they are outside the unit circle, then the modulus of the lambda j is greater than 1. And if we then consider taking a complex number lambda, basically the root, and have an expression for 1 minus 1 over lambda l inverse, we can get this series expression for that inverse. And that series will exist, and so be bounded if the lambda i are greater than 1 in magnitude. So we can actually compute an inverse of phi of l by taking the inverse of each of the component products in that polynomial. So an introductory time series, of course, is they talk about stationarity and unit roots but they don't really get into it because people don't know complex math, don't know about roots. So anyway, but this is just very simply how that framework is applied. So we have a polynomial equation for the characteristic equation whose roots we're looking for. And those roots have to be outside the unit circle for stationarity of the process. Well, OK, it's basically the conditions for invertibility of the process of the autoregressive process and that invertibility renders the process an infinite order moving average process. So let's go through these results for the autoregressive process of order one where things will always start with the simplest case to understand things. OK. The characteristic equation for this model is just 1 minus phi z. The root is 1 over phi. So lambda is greater than 1. If the modulus of lambda is greater than 1, meaning the root is outside the integral, then phi is less than 1. So for covariant stationarity of this autoregressive process, we need the magnitude of phi to be less than 1 in magnitude. OK, the expected value of x is mu. The variance of x is sigma squared x. This has this form, sigma squared over 1 minus phi. That expression is basically obtained by looking at the infinite order moving average representation. But notice that if phi is positive, Then the variance of x is actually greater than the variance of the innovations. And if phi is less than 0, then it's going to be smaller. So the innovation variance basically is scaled up a bit in the autoregressive process. The covariance matrix is phi times sigma squared x. You'll be going through this in the problem set. And the covariance of x is phi of the j power sigma squared x. And these expressions can all be easily evaluated by simply writing out the definition of these covariances in terms of the original model. And looking at what terms are independent, cancel out, and that proceeds. So let's just go through these cases. was showed all here. All right, so we have, if phi is between 0 and 1, then the process experiences exponential mean reversion to mu. So an autoregressive process with phi between 0 and 1 corresponds to a mean reverting process. This process is actually one that has been used theoretically for interest rate models and a lot of theoretical work and finance. the vasitechach model is actually an example of the Ornstein Ulumbeck process, which is basically a mean reverting brownie in motion. And any variables that exhibit or could be thought of as exhibiting mean reversion can be, this model can be applied to those processes, such as interest rate spreads or real exchange rates, Variables where one can expect that things never get too large or too small, they come back to some me. Now, the challenge is that usually, maybe, true over short periods of time, but over very long periods of time, the point to which you're reverting to changes. So these models tend to not have broad application over long time ranges in need. Anyway, with the AR process, we can also have negative values of phi, which results in exponential mean reversion that's oscillating in time because the autoregressive coefficient basically is a negative value. And OK, for phi equal to 1, well, the composition doesn't exist, and the process is the simple random walk. So basically, if phi is equal to 1, that means that basically just changes in value of the process are independent and identically distributed white noise. And that's the random walk process. And that process was covered in earlier lectures as non-stationary. If phi is greater than 1, then you have an explosive process, because basically the values are scaling up every time increment. So those are features of the AR1 model. For a general autoregressive process of order p, there's a method, well, we can look at the second order moments of that process, which have a very nice structure, and then use those to solve for estimates of the arm of parameters, or autoregressive parameters. And those happen to be specified by what are called the u-walker equations. So u-walker equations as a standard topic in time series analysis. What is it? What does it correspond to? Well, we take our original autoregressive process of order p, and we write out the formulas for the covariance at lag j between two observations. So what's the covariance between x t and x t minus j? And that expression is given by this equation. And so this equation for gamma of j is determined simply by evaluating the expectations, where we're taking the expectation of x t in the autoregressive process times the fixed x t minus j minus mu. So just evaluating to those terms, you can validate that this is the equation. If we look at the equations corresponding to j equals 1, And so lag 1 up to lag p, this is what those equations look like. Basically, the left-hand side is gamma 1 through gamma p. The covariance to lag 1 up to lag p is equal to basically linear functions given by the phi of the other covariances. Who can tell me what the structure is of this matrix? It's not a diagonal matrix. What kind of matrix is this sort of math trivia question? But it has a special name. Anyone? It's a topolids matrix, OK? It's where the off diagonals are all the same value. And in fact, because of the symmetry of the covariance, basically, the gamma of 1 is equal to gamma of minus 1. Gamma of minus 2 is equal to gamma of plus 2. Because of the covariance stationarity, it's actually also symmetric. So these equations allow us to solve for the fees so long as we have estimates of these covariances. So if we have a system of estimates, we can plug these in and attempt to solve this. If there are consistent estimates of the covariances, then there will be a solution. And then the zeroth equation, which was not part of this series of equations. If you go back and look at the zeroth equation, That allows you to get an estimate for the sigma squared. So these dual walker equations are the way in which many armor models are specified in different statistics packages and in terms of what principles are being applied. Well, if we're using unbiased estimates of these parameters, then this is applying what's called the method of moments principle for statistical estimation. And with complicated models, we are sometimes the likelihood functions are very hard to specify and compute. And then to do optimization over those is even harder. It can turn out that there are relationships between the moments of the random variables, which are functions of the unknown parameters. And you can solve for basically the sample moments equaling the theoretical moments, and you apply the method of moments estimation method. Econometrix is rich with many applications of that principle. OK, the next section goes through the moving average model. Let me highlight this. OK, so with an order Q moving average, we basically have a polynomial in the lag operator L, which is operated upon the A to T's. And if you write out the expectations of XT, you get mu. The variance of XT is just gamma naught as sigma squared times 1 plus the squares of the coefficients in the polynomial. And so this property here is due to the fact that we have uncorrelated innovations in the A to T's. The A to T's are white noise. So the only thing that comes through in the square of xt and the expectation of that is the squared powers of the aedis, which have coefficients given by the theta i squared. So these properties are left. I'll leave you just to verify, very straightforward. But let's now turn to the final minutes of the lecture today to accommodating non-stationary behavior in time series. The original approaches with time series was to focus on estimation methodologies for covariance stationary process. So if a series is not covariance stationary, then we would want to do some transformation of the data of the series into a stationary so that the resulting process is stationary. And with the differencing operators, Delta, Box and Jenkins advocated removing non-stationary trending behavior, which is exhibited often in an economic time series by using a first difference, maybe a second difference, or a K-thord or a difference. So these operators are defined in this way. Basically with the kth order operator having this expression here, this is sort of the binomial expansion of a kth power which can be useful. Anyway, it comes up all the time in probability theory. And if a process has a linear time trend, then delta XT is going to have no time trend at all, because you're basically taking out that linear component by taking successive differences. Sometimes, if you have a real series and you look at the difference, it appears non-station, you look at first differences, that can still have not appear to be growing over time. And in which case, sometimes the second difference will result in a process with no trend. So these are sort of convenient tricks techniques to render the series stationary. And let's see, there's examples here of linear trend-reversion models, which are rendered covariant stationary end of first-differencing. So in this case, this is an example where you have a deterministic time trend. But then you have reversion to the time trend over time. So we basically have A to T. The error about the deterministic trend is a first-order auto regressive process. And the moments here can be derived this way. Leave that as an exercise. One can also consider the pure integrated process. And talk about stochastic trends. And basically random walk processes are often referred to in econometrics as stochastic trends. And you may want to try and eliminate those from remove those from the data or accommodate them. And so the stochastic trend process is basically given by the first difference x t is just equal to a to t. And so we have essentially this random walk from a given starting point. And it's easy to verify that if you knew the zeroth point, then the variance of the teeth time point would be t sigma squared, because we're summing t independent innovations. And the covariance of T and like t minus j is simply t minus j sigma squared. And the correlation between those has this form. What you can see is that this definitely depends on time, so it's not a stationary process. So this first difference in results in stationarity and the undifferent process has those features. The final topic for today is just how you incorporate non-stationary processes into armor processes. Well, if you take first differences or second differences in the resulting process is covariant stationary, then we can just incorporate that differencing into the model specification itself and define a REMA models, autoregressive, integrated moving average processes. And so to specify these models, we need to determine the order of the difference thing required to move trends, deterministic or stochastic, and then estimating the unknown parameters, and then applying model selection criteria. So let me go very quickly through this and come back to it at the beginning of next time. But in specifying the parameters of these models, we can apply maximum likelihood, again, if we assume normality of these innovations, A to T. And we can express the armament in state-space form, which results in a form for the likelihood function, which we'll see in a few lectures ahead. But then we can apply limited information maximum likely where we just condition on the first few observations of the data and maximize the likelihood. Or not condition on the first few observations, but also use their information as well. And look at their density functions incorporating those into the likelihood relative to the stationary distribution for their values. And then the issue becomes how do we choose amongst different models? Now, last time we talked about linear regression models, how you'd specify a given model. Here we're talking about how to regressive moving average and even integrated moving average process and how do we specify those. Well, with the method of maximum likelihood, there are procedures which there are measures of how effectively a fitted model is given by an information criterion that you would want to minimize for a given fitted model. So we can consider different sets of models, different numbers of explanatory variables, different orders of other regressive parameters, moving average parameters, and compute, say, the Akiq information criterion, or the Bay's information criterion of the Han and Quinn criterion has different ways of judging how good different models are. And let me just finish today by pointing out that what these information criteria are is basically a function of the log likelihood function, which is something we're trying to maximize with maximum likelihood estimates. And then adding some penalty for how many parameters were estimating. And so what I'd like you to think about for next time is what kind of a penalty is appropriate for adding an extra parameter? What evidence is required to incorporate extra parameters, extra variables in the model? Would it be teased statistics that exceed some threshold or some other criterion? Turns out that these are all related to those issues. And it's very interesting how those play out. And I'll say that, for those of you who've actually seen these before, the Bay's information criterion corresponds to an assumption that there is some finite number of variables in the model and you know what those are. The Han and Quinn criterion says, maybe there's an infinite number of variables in the model, but you want to be able to identify those. And so, anyway, it's a very challenging problem with model selection. And these criteria can be used to specify those through that next time.
