Timestamp: 2026-05-21T13:30:42.057010
Title: Noisy - instead of scrolling TikTok for 3 hours tonight, watch this Stanford ... 2057152285642199087
URL: https://x.com/noisyb0y1/status/2057152285642199087?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 1:22:16

Description:
这是一份针对该马尔可夫决策过程（MDP）讲义内容的深度架构分析、批判性审阅及逻辑逻辑图谱。

---

### **第一部分：作者蓝图 (Author's Map)**

**1. 核心主张 (Core Thesis)**
马尔可夫决策过程（MDP）是处理现实世界不确定性决策的标准数学框架。它通过将搜索问题从“确定性路径选择”扩展为“随机性策略优化”，利用贝尔曼方程（Bellman Equation）迭代计算期望效用，从而在充满偶然性的环境中找到最优行为准则。

**2. 论据基础 (Evidentiary Base)**
*   **直观案例：** 周五去山景城的交通选择（自行车、开车、加州火车、Uber），强调爆胎、拥堵、延迟等不确定因素。
*   **教学模型：** “火山穿越”岛屿模型（权衡奖励与坠入火山的风险）、“掷骰子”博弈（权衡即时退出奖励与继续博弈的期望收益）、“电车问题”的随机变体（电车有50%概率失效）。
*   **数学组件：** 状态（S）、动作（A）、转移概率（T）、奖励（R）和折扣因子（$\gamma$）。

**3. 逻辑授权 (Logical Warrant)**
该论证基于**递归期望值理论**。即当前状态的价值取决于当前采取动作后的即时奖励，加上未来所有可能到达状态的期望价值的折现总和。通过迭代更新（Policy Evaluation 和 Value Iteration），数学上可以保证在收敛时达到最优。

**4. 设定范围 (Stated Scope)**
*   适用于状态空间和动作空间已知且有限的离散系统。
*   假设环境满足马尔可夫性质（当前状态足以预测未来，与历史无关）。
*   明确区分了“已知模型”的MDP与“未知模型”的强化学习（RL，下一讲内容）。

**5. 隐含对手 (Implicit Opponent)**
*   **确定性搜索算法（如 A*）：** 作者认为在现实世界中，仅规划一条固定路径是脆弱的，因为一旦发生随机偏移（如电车失效），路径即刻失效。
*   **纯感性决策：** 通过量化“期望效用”，论证了直觉（如因20%风险就放弃跨越火山）在数学期望面前可能并非最优。

**6. 预期效果 (Intended Takeaway)**
读者应能将现实决策问题形式化为MDP五元组，并理解如何通过编程实现价值迭代（Value Iteration）来自动生成在任何状态下都最优的策略（Policy）。

---

### **第二部分：严厉且客观的审阅 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review)**

**1. 强化版主张 (Steelman)**
MDP 并非简单的搜索升级，它是对“世界观”的重构：它承认个体无法完全控制结果，因此放弃寻找“最佳路径”，转而寻找“最佳应对规则（Policy）”。这种从“线”到“面”的升维，使得决策系统具备了处理崩溃和意外的鲁棒性。

**2. 最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)**
> “假设我们已知转移概率 $T(s, a, s')$ 和奖励函数 $R(s, a, s')$。”

这是整个MDP架构的阿喀琉斯之踵。在现实的机器人、资源分配或农业决策中，这些概率和奖励通常是极其模糊的估计。如果 $T$ 的估算偏差了 10%，计算出的“最优策略”可能会直接导致系统崩溃（如频繁掉进火山）。

**3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)**
*   **风险厌恶缺失：** 在“火山穿越”例子中，算法仅计算期望值。但在现实中，-50 的奖励可能是“死亡”，而 +20 只是“金钱”。期望值相等时，人类会选择极度规避死亡。MDP 默认的“风险中性”假设在生命攸关的决策中是失效的。
*   **折扣因子 $\gamma$ 的随意性：** 讲义将 $\gamma$ 称为“设计选择”，但在金融或生态决策中，$\gamma$ 的微小变动会彻底改变策略（如即刻消费 vs. 长远投资）。

**4. 隐藏前提 (Hidden Premises)**
*   **计算成本忽略：** 价值迭代的复杂度是 $O(T \cdot S^2 \cdot A)$。当状态空间 $S$ 爆炸（如围棋或复杂交通网）时，这种“全局最优”的计算在物理上是不可行的。
*   **静态环境假设：** 假设 $T$ 和 $R$ 不随时间改变。如果环境具有竞争性（如博弈），MDP 无法处理对手策略的变化。

**5. 盲区 (The Blind Side)**
讲义忽略了**模型失配风险（Model Misspecification）**。当真实的物理规律不符合马尔可夫性质（例如存在隐藏变量或长程依赖）时，MDP 提供的策略不仅不是最优，甚至可能是误导性的。

**6. 致命一问 (One Hit Kill)**
如果转移概率 $T$ 本身是动态变化的，或者奖励 $R$ 具有延迟反馈且不可量化（如品牌声誉），你的价值迭代方程除了产生一个数学幻觉外，还能提供什么实际指导？

**7. 如何定论 (What Would Settle It)**
通过对比“基于MDP的策略”与“基于鲁棒控制（Robust Control）”在模拟环境中的表现。如果环境噪声超过一定阈值，MDP 的表现会迅速劣化，这将证明该模型对精确参数的过度依赖。

---

### **第三部分：核心逻辑 Mermaid 图谱**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    subgraph SG_Model["🔵 MDP 形式化建模 (Modeling)"]
        direction TB
        M1["<b>状态 S</b><br/>当前处境 (如: 在电车上)"]:::input
        M2["<b>动作 A</b><br/>可选方案 (如: 走路 vs 电车)"]:::input
        M3["<b>转移概率 T</b><br/>自然界的不确定性 (P(s'|s,a))"]:::spatial
        M4["<b>奖励 R</b><br/>行动的代价或收益"]:::spatial
        M5["<b>折扣因子 γ</b><br/>对未来的重视程度"]:::spatial
        M1 & M2 & M3 & M4 & M5 --> M_Core["<b>MDP 模型主体</b>"]
    end

    subgraph SG_Solution["🟢 核心算法 (Inference)"]
        direction TB
        S1["<b>策略 π(s)</b><br/>解的形态: 状态到动作的映射"]:::learnable
        S2["<b>价值函数 V(s)</b><br/>长期期望效用"]:::temporal
        
        subgraph SG_Eval["策略评估 (Evaluation)"]
            E1["固定 π，求 V"]
            E2["迭代方程: V = Σ T * (R + γV)"]
        end

        subgraph SG_Iter["价值迭代 (Value Iteration)"]
            I1["寻找最优 V* 和 π*"]
            I2["贝尔曼更新: V = max_a Σ T * (R + γV)"]
        end
    end

    subgraph SG_Review["🚩 批判性审阅 (Hostile Review)"]
        direction TB
        R_Weak["<b>最弱环节: 参数依赖</b><br/>假设 T 和 R 已知且准确"]:::reviewNode
        R_Risk["<b>盲区: 风险中性</b><br/>期望值计算忽略了极端失败的不可承受性"]:::reviewNode
        R_Comp["<b>局限: 维度灾难</b><br/>大规模状态空间下计算不可行"]:::reviewNode
        R_Fix["<b>前提假设: 马尔可夫性</b><br/>忽略历史信息对未来的潜在影响"]:::reviewDetailNode
    end

    subgraph SG_Search["🟡 搜索 vs MDP"]
        direction LR
        Search["<b>确定性搜索</b><br/>路径 (Path)<br/>Successor(s,a) -> s'"]
        MDP["<b>随机性 MDP</b><br/>策略 (Policy)<br/>T(s,a,s') -> 概率"]
        Search -- "增加不确定性" --> MDP
    end

    M_Core --> SG_Solution
    S1 -- "评估其好坏" --> SG_Eval
    SG_Iter -- "提取最优" --> S1
    
    %% 批判指向
    M3 -.-> R_Weak
    I2 -.-> R_Risk
    M1 -.-> R_Comp
    M_Core -.-> R_Fix

    %% 样式定义
    classDef input fill:#FFF176,stroke:#F9A825,stroke-width:2px,color:#333
    classDef spatial fill:#C8E6C9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20
    classDef temporal fill:#BBDEFB,stroke:#1565C0,stroke-width:2px,color:#1A237E
    classDef learnable fill:#CE93D8,stroke:#6A1B9A,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#4A148C
    classDef reviewNode fill:#FFCDD2,stroke:#D32F2F,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#B71C1C
    classDef reviewDetailNode fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#EF9A9A,stroke-width:1px,color:#C62828

    %% 背景颜色
    style SG_Model fill:#FFFDE7,stroke:#F9A825,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Solution fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Review fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#D32F2F,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Search fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#1565C0,stroke-width:2px
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
All right, so, okay, let's get into it. So Markov decision processes. So let's start with a question. Let's actually do this just by hand, so don't need to go to the website. So the question is it's Friday night and you wanna go to Mountain View and you have a bunch of options, but what you wanna do is you wanna get to Mountain View with the least amount of time, okay? Which one of these modes of transportation would you use? Like, how many of you would bike? No one would bike? How many people would bike? How many of you would drive? This is popular in Mountain View. It would be good. CalTrainers, some people would take CalTrain. Sounds good. Uber and Lyft. We have a good distribution fly. Yes, yeah, they could never be going on a fly. As flying cars are becoming a thing, this could be an option in the future. There are a lot of actually startups working on flying cars. But as you think about this problem, the way you think about it is there are a bunch of uncertainties in the world. It's not necessarily a search problem. You could bike and you can get a flat tire, and you don't really know that. You have to take that into account. If you're driving, there could be traffic. If you're taking the caltrain, there are all sorts of delay with the caltrain. And all sorts of other uncertainties that exist in the world, and then you need to think about those. So it's not just a pure search problem, where you pick your route, and then you just go with it. There are things that can happen that can affect your decision. And that kind of takes us to Markov decision processes. You talked about search problems, where everything was deterministic, and now you're talking about this next class of state-based functions, which are Markov decision processes. And the idea of it is you take actions, but you might not actually end up where you expect it to, because there's this nature around you and there's this world around you that's going to be uncertain and do stuff that you didn't expect. So far, we've talked about search problems. The idea of it is you start with a state, and then you take an action, and you deterministically end up in a new state. If you remember the successor function, successor of S and A would always give us S prime. And we would deterministically end up in S prime. So if you have that graph up there, if you start in S and you decide to take this action one, you're going to end up in A. There's no other option. That's how you're going to end up in it. And the solution to these search problems were these paths. So we had the sequence of actions. Because I know if I take action one and action three action too, I know like what is a path that I'm going to end up at and that would be ideal. Okay? So when we think about Markov decision processes, that is the setting where we have uncertainty in the world and we need to take that into account. So the idea of it is you start this state, you decide to take an action, but then you can randomly end up in different states. You can randomly end up in S1 prime or S2 prime. And again, because there is just so many other things that are happening in the world and and you need to worry about that randomness and make decisions based on that, okay? And this actually comes up pretty much like a revert in a re-application. So this comes up in robotics. So for example, if you have a robot that wants to go and pick up an object, you decide on your strategy, everything is great. But like when it comes to actually moving the robot and getting the robot to do the task like the actuators can fail or you might have all sorts of obstacles around you that you didn't think about. So there is uncertainty about the environment or uncertainty about your model, like your actuators that you didn't necessarily think about and in reality, they're affecting your decisions and where you're ending up. This comes up in other settings like resource allocation. So in resource allocation, maybe you're deciding what to produce, what is a product you would want to produce. And that kind of depends on what is a customer demand and you might not have a good model of that and that's uncertain, right? It really depends on what products customers want and what they don't and you only have a model but it's not going to be like accurate. And you need to do research allocation under those assumptions of uncertainty about the world. Similar thing is in agriculture. So for example, you want to decide what sort of what to plant. But again, you might not be sure about the weather, if it's going to rain, or if the crops are going to yield or not. So there's a lot of uncertainty in these decisions that we make. And they make these problems to go beyond search problems and become problems where we have uncertainty. And we need to make decisions on their uncertainty. All right, so let's look at another example. So this is a volcano crossing example. So we have an island, and we're on one side of the island. And what we want to do, so we're in that black square over there. And what we want to do is we want to go from this black square to this side of the island, where we have the scenic view. And that's going to give us a lot of reward and happiness. So my goal is to go from one side of the island to the other side of the island. But the caveat is here is that there is this volcano in the middle of the island that I need to actually pass. And if I fall into the volcano, I'm going to get a minus 50 reward, more like minus infinity. But for this example, like you imagine, we were getting a minus 50 reward if we fall into the volcano. So all right, so if I have this link here on this side, so if my slip probability is 0, which is I'm sure I'm not going to fall into a volcano. Should I cross the island? No, yes. Well, I should cross the island because I'm not gonna fall, right? I'm not gonna fall into that minus 50. Sleep probability is zero. I'll get to my 20 reward. Everything will be great, okay? But the thing is like we've been talking about how the world is stochastic and sleep probability is not gonna be zero. Maybe it is 10%. So if there's 10% chance of falling into the volcano, how many of you would still cross the island? number. So the optimal solution is actually shown by these errors here. And, yes, the optimal solution is still to cross the island. Like, your value here, we're going to talk about all these terms. But the value here is basically the value you're going to get at that beginning, like, state, which is the kind of, we'll talk about it. It's the expected utility that you're going to get. It's going to go down because there is some probability that you're going to fall into a volcano, but still, like, the best thing to do is to cross the island. How about 20 percent? How many of you would do it with 20 percent? Some number of people, it's less, still turns out that the optimal strategy is to cross. 30 percent, 1 percent. So with 30 percent, that's actually the point that we kind of, we'd rather not cross because there's this volcano and then with a large probability you could fall into the volcano, And the value is going to go down. So these are the types of problems you're going to work with. Yes. What respect if true is true is like what you can do. So true is the reward that you're going to get at that state. And then value, compute that you propagated back. We'll talk about that in details on how to compute the value. All right. OK, so that was just an example. So that was an example of a Markov decision process. What we want to do in this lecture is we are going to, again, model these types of systems mark-off decision processes, then we are going to talk about inference-type algorithms. So how do we do inference? How do we come up with this best strategy path? And in the middle, I'm going to talk about policy evaluation, which is not an inference algorithm, but it's kind of a step towards it. And it's basically this idea, if someone tells me this is a policy, can I evaluate how good it is? And then we'll talk about value iteration, which tries to figure out what is the best policy that I can take. So that's a plan for today. Next lecture, we are going to talk about reinforcement learning, where we don't actually know what the reward is, and we don't know what the transitions are. So that's kind of the learning part of this MDP lectures. So read is going to actually do the lecture next, next, next on Wednesday. OK, so let's get into Markov decision processes. So we have a bunch of examples throughout this lecture. So let's look at another example. All right, so actually, I do need volunteers for this. So in this example, we have a bunch of rounds. And the idea is, at any point in time, you can choose two actions. You can either stay or you can quit. If you decide to quit, I'm going to give you $10. Actually, I'm not going to give you $10. But imagine I'm going to give you $10. And then we'll end the game. And if you decide to stay, then you're going to get $4 and then all row dice. If I get one or two, we'll end the game. Otherwise, you're going to continue to the next round, and you can decide again. So who wants to play with this? All right, volunteer. Do you want to stay or quit? So that was easy. You got your $10. Does anyone else want to play? Stay. Oh, you got $8. Sorry, the dice is two. So kind of get the idea here, right? So you have these actions, and then with one of them, If you said to quit, you deterministically will get your $10 and you're done. With the other one, it's probabilistic. And you kind of want to see which one is better and what would be the best policy to take in this setting. So we'll come back to this question. We'll formalize this and we'll go over this. So then you need to actually compute what is the expected utility. And that's what we want to do. So you might say, oh, I want to stay. And then I get my $4 and I want to quit. And then I get 14. And maybe that is the way to go. That could be a strategy. But for doing that, we are going to actually talk about that. For doing that, we are going to define what would be the optimal policy. One other thing that, for this particular problem, we are going to keep in mind is, I'll talk about it when I define a policy. But the policy, the way we define it, is it's a function of state. So if you decide to stay, that is your policy. If you decide to not stay, that is your policy. You're not allowing searching right now. As I talk about this later in the lecture, but I'll come back to this problem. So if you decide that your policy, the thing you want to do is to just stay, keep staying. This is the probability of the total rewards that you're going to get. So you're going to get for with some probability. And then if you're lucky, you're going to get 8. And then even if you're lucky, you're going to get 12. And if you're lucky, you're going to get 16. But the probabilities are going to come down pretty much like really quickly. So the thing we care about in this setting is the expected utility, right? In expectation, like if I run this, and if I average all these possible paths that I can do, what would be the value that I get? And for this particular problem, it turns out that in expectation, if you decide to stay, you should get 12. So you got really unlucky that you got 8. But in general, in expectation, you should decide to stay. And we actually want to spend a little bit of time in this lecture thinking about how we get that tool and then how to go about computing this expected utility and based on that, how to decide what policy to use, right? OK, and then if you decide to quit, then the expected utility there is kind of obvious, right? Because that you're quitting and that's with probability one, you're getting $10. So you're just going to get $10. And that is expected utility of quitting. So when I said, when you roll a die, I said, if you get one or two, you say, yeah. And then if you get the other, so the two-thirds of it, you continue. So it's a one-third, two-thirds comes from there, okay? All right, I'll come back to this example. This is actually the running examples throughout this lecture, okay? So. You're going to talk about that, that's what the lecture is about, okay? So let's actually, I do want to finish it in an hour. That's why maybe I'm rushing things a little bit. But we are going to talk about this problem like throughout the class, so don't worry about it. If it's not clear at the end of it, they can clarify things. All right, so I do want to formalize this problem. The way I want to formalize this problem is using an MDP. So I want to formalize this as a Markov decision process. Maybe I can just use this. So in Markov decision processing, similar to search problems, you're going to have states. So in this particular game, I'm going to have two states. I'm either in the game or I'm out of the game. So I'm in an end state where everything we ended. You're out of the game. You're done. So those are my states. Then when I'm in these states, I'm in each of these states, I can take an action. And if I'm in an end state, I can take two actions. I can either decide to stay, right? Or I can quit. And if I decide to stay from in state, that takes me to something that I'm going to call a chance note. So a chance note is a note that represents state and action. So it's not really like the blue things are my states, but I'm creating these chance notes as a way of kind of going through this example to see where things are going. So these blue states are going to be my states. I mean, S, these chance nodes are over state and action. So basically, the snail tells me that I started with N and I decided to stay. And a chance node here basically tells me that I started with N, and I decided to quit. OK? Yes? OK, snow, even though it's deterministically. So I deterministically go there, but then from the chance node, that's where I'm introducing the probability. So from the chance node, I can, like, probability will end up in these different states. In the case of the quid, it's also deterministic. In the case of the quid, in this case, it's deterministic. Yeah. So in the case of the quid, we say with probability 1, I'm going to end up in this end state. So I'm going to draw that with the edge that comes from my chance node. And I'm going to say with probability 1, I'm going to get $10 and just be done. But if you're in this state, this is actually the state where interesting things can happen. With probability 2 thirds, I'm going to go back to in and get $4. Or with probability 1 thirds, I'm going to end up in end. And do I get still $4? So that is my Markov decision process. So I had maybe you can keep track of a list of things We are defining in this lecture, so we just define states. And then we said, well, we are going to have these chance nodes. Because from these chance nodes, probabilistically, we are going to come out of them, depending on what happens to nature. This is the decision I've made. Now, nature decides which one we are going to end up at. And based on that, we move forward. All right, so more formally, we have a bunch of things when we define an MDP. Similar to search problems. We now need to define the same set of things. So we have a set of states. In this case, my states are in and end. We have a start state. I'm starting with in. So that's my start state. I have actions as a function of states. So when I ask, what are the actions of the state? My actions are going to be state or quit. What are actions of end? I don't have anything. And state doesn't have any actions that come out of it. And then we have these transition probabilities. So transition probabilities, more formally, take a state and action and a new state. So s, a, s prime, and tell me what is the transition probability of that, it's one third in this case. And then I have a reward, which tells me how much was that rewarding, that was $4. So I'm defining, so when I'm defining my mdp, kind of the new things I'm defining is this transition probability, which tells me, If you're in state s and take action a, and you end up in s prime, what is the probability of that? I'm in, I decide to stay, and then I end up in end. What's the probability of that? That's one third. Maybe I'm in, I decide to quit, I end up in end. What's the probability of that? Let's go to one. And then over the same state action, state primes, like next state, we are going to end up at, we are going to define a reward. Which tells me how much money did I get? or like, how good was that? So it was $4 in this case, or if I decide to quit, I got $10, okay? And if you remember in the case of search problems you're talking about cost, I'm just flipping the sign here, we wanted to minimize cost, here we want to maximize the reward, it's just a more optimistic view of the world, I guess. So that is what the rewards are going to be, if I'm not, okay? We also have this as end function, which again, similar to search problems, just checks if you are in an end state or not. And in addition to that, we have something that's called a discount factor. It's the value gamma, which is between 0 and 1. And I'll talk about this later. Don't worry about it right now. But it's a thing we define for our NDPs. All right. So how do I compare this with search? Again, these were the things that we had in a search problem. We had the successor function that would to terministically take me to S prime. And we had this cost function that would tell me what was the cost of being state S and taking action A. So the major things that are changed is that instead of a successor function, I have transition probabilities, these T's, that basically term was a probability of starting in S, taking action A and ending up in S prime. And then the cost just became reward. So those are kind of the major differences between search and MVP. Because things are not deterministic. All right, so that was the formalism. Now, now I can define any NDP model, any Markov decision process. And one thing, just one thing to point out is these transition probabilities, this T basically specifies the probability of ending up in state S prime if you take action A in state S. So these are probabilities, right? So for example, again, like we have done this example, but let's just do it on the slide again. If I'm in state N, I take action quit. I end up in end. What's the probability of that? One. And then if I'm state in, I take action stay. I end up in state in again. What's the probability of that? I end up in in again. Two thirds. And then if I'm state in, I take action stay. I end up in end. What's the probability of that? One third. And these are probabilities. So what that means is they need to kind of add up to one. But one thing to notice is, well, just what is going to add up to one? Like, all of the things in the column are not going to add up to one. The thing that's going to add up to one is if you consider all possible these different asprimes that you're going to end up at, those probabilities are going to add up to one. So if you look at this table again, if you look at deciding and being stay in and taking action stay, then the probabilities that we have for The difference s primes are 2, 3rd and 1, 3rd. And those two are the things that are going to add up to 1. And in the first case, if you're in stay in and you decide to quit, then whatever s primes you're going to end up at, in this case, it's just the end state, those probabilities are going to add up to 1. So more formally, what that means is, if I'm summing over s primes, these new states that I'm going to end up at, the transition probabilities need to add up to 1, because they're basically probabilities. tell me what are the things that can happen if I take an action. And then this transition probabilities are going to be non-negative because there are probabilities. So that's also another property. So usual things. All right. So that's a search problem. Let's actually formalize another search problem. This is, let's actually try to code this up. So what is this search problem? This is the tram problem. So remember the tram problem. I have blocks 1 through n. What I want to do is I have two possible actions. I can either walk from state s to a state s plus 1, or I can take the magic tram that takes me from state s to state 2s. If I walk, that costs 1 minutes. Means the reward of that is minus 1. If I take the tram, that costs 2 minutes. That means that the reward of that is minus 2. And the question was, how do we want to travel from one to end in the least amount of time? So nothing here is probabilistic yet. So I'm going to add an extra thing here, which says the tram is going to fail with probability 0.5. So I'm going to decide, maybe, take a tram at some point, and that tram can fail with probability 0.5. If it fails, I end up in my state. I don't go anywhere. And actually, in this case, you're assuming you're still losing two minutes. So if I decide to take it a tram, I'm going to lose two minutes. Maybe you'll fail. Maybe you will not. All right. So let's try to formalize this. So we're going to take our tram problem from two lectures ago. So this is from search1. We're going to just copy that. So all right. So this was what we had from last time. We had this transportation problem. And we had all these algorithms to solve the search problem. We don't really need them because we have a new problem, so let's just get rid of them. And now I just want to formalize an MDP. So it's a transportation MDP, OK? The initialization looks OK. Start state looks OK. I'm starting from 1 is end looks OK. So the thing I'm going to change is the first off, I need to add this actions function. So what would actions do? It's going to return a list of actions that are potential actions in a given state. So I just copy-paste that stuff from down there to just edit. So it's going to return a list of valid actions, OK? So what are the valid actions I can take? I can either walk or I can tram. So I'm going to remove all these extra things that I had from before and just keep it to be either walking or I'm taking the tram, OK? As long as it's a valid state. So that looks right for actions. The other thing we had was a successor and cost function. So now we want to just change that and return these transition probabilities and reward. So it's basically the successor probabilities and reward. So I'm putting those two together similarly before we had successor and cost. Now I'm returning probabilities and reward. So what this function is going to return is it's going to return this new state, this s prime. I'm going to end up at. And the probability value for that and reward of that. So given that I'm starting in state s, and I'm taking action a, then what are the potential s-primes that I can end up at? And what are the probabilities of that, like then what is t of s as prime? And what is the reward of that? What is the reward of s as prime? I want to have a function to just return these so I can call it later. Okay? All right. So I need to basically check, like for each one of these actions, I can, for action walk. What happens for action walk? What's new state? I'm going to end up at. Well, I'm going to end up at s plus 1. It's a deterministic action, so I'm going to end up there with probability 1. And what's the reward of that? Minus 1, because it's 1 minute cost, so it's minus 1 reward. Then for action tram, we kind of do the same thing, but we have two options here. I can I can end up in 2s. Tram doesn't fail. I end up in 2s with probability 0.5. That cost that reward of that is minus two or the other option is I'm going to end up in state S because I didn't go anywhere because we probably 0.5 the tram did fail and that the reward of that is minus two and that's pretty much it that that is my my mdp so I can just define this for a city with let's say 10 blocks oh and we need to have the discount factor but we'll talk about that later let's say it's It's just one for now. And I'll use, right, I'm writing this other state function for later, but is that, look, right? Just formalized this MVP. So let's check if it does the right thing. So maybe we want to know, what are the actions from state three? What are the actions from state three? Oh, we need to remove this util function from before because we don't have it in the folder. So we'll remove that. What are the actions from state three? I have 10 blocks. If I'm state 3, I can either walk or tram. Either one of them is fine, right? So that did the right thing. Maybe we want to just check if this successor probability and reward function does the right thing. So maybe we can try that out for state 3 and walk. So for state 3 and action walk, then what do we get? Well, we end up in four. And that is probably one with the reward of minus 1. Okay, let's try that for tram. Again, remember tram can fail, so I'm gonna get two things here. So these are the things I'm gonna get for tram. I'm going to either end up in six with probability 0.5 with the reward of minus two. Or I will not go anywhere. I'm still at three with probability 0.5. And that is with the reward of minus two. Okay, all right. So that was just a tram problem And we formalized it as an MDP. Again, the reason it's an MDP here is that the tram can fail with probability 0.5. So we added that in, then we defined our transition function and our reward function. Everyone happy with how we are defining MDPs? Yeah. Pretty similar to search problems, except for now we have these probabilities. All right, so now we have defined an MDP. That's great. The next question that, in general, we I would like to answer is to give a solution, right? So there's a question. So what is the Markov part of the MVP? So the Markov part means that you just depend on the state and this current state. Like, maybe we define our state. Remember, our state is sufficient for us to make optimal decisions for the future. So the Markov part means that your Markovian only depends on the current state and actions to end up in that problem will likely end up in the next state. So yeah, so the interesting question you would like to do is, well, we want to find a solution. I want to figure out what is the optimal path to actually solve this problem. And again, if you remember search problems, the solution to search problems was just a sequence of actions, that's all I had. Like a sequence of actions, a path, that was a solution. And the reason that was a good solution was like everything was deterministic. So I could just give you the path, and then that was what you would follow. But in the case of MDPs, the way we are defining a solution is by using this notion of a policy. So a policy, let me actually write that here. So you've defined an MDP. But now I want to say, well, what is a solution of an MDP? A solution of a markup of the theorem process is a policy pi of s. And this policy basically goes from states. So it takes any state. And it tells me what is the potential action that I would get for that state. So a policy is a function. It's a mapping from each state s in the set of all possible states to an action in the set of all possible actions. So in the case of volcano crossing, like I can have something like this, I can be in state 1, 1, and then a policy of that state could be going south. Or I can be in state 2, 1, and a policy for that state is east. If this was a search problem, I would just give a path. I would just say, go south, then go east, and go north. So that would be my solution. But again, if I decide that, well, the policy at 1, 1 is to go south, there is no reason for you to end up at south, because this thing is probabilistic. So the best thing I can do is, for every state, just tell you what is the best thing you can do for that particular state. And that's why we are defining a policy, as opposed to giving a full path. All right, so policy is the thing we are looking for. And ideally, I would like to find this best policy that would just give me the right solution. But in order to get there, I want to spend a little bit of time talking about how good a policy would be. And that's kind of this idea of evaluating a policy. So in this middle section, I don't want to try to find a policy. I just assume you give me a policy, and I can evaluate it until you how good that is. So that's the plan for the middle section. All right, everyone happy? So far, all I've done is I've defined an MDP, which is very similar to a search problem. It's just probabilistic. So how would we evaluate a policy? So if you give me a policy, which basically tells me that every state S takes some action, then that policy is going to generate a random path. I can get multiple random paths, because nature behaves differently and the world is uncertain. So I might get a bunch of random paths, and then those are all random variables, random paths, sorry. And then for each one of those random paths, I can define a utility. So what is a utility? Utility is just going to be the sum of rewards that I'm going to get over that path. And I'm calling it as the discounted sum of the rewards. Remember that the scount will talk about that, but we can discount the future. But for now, just assume it's just the sum of rewards on that path. So the utility that we're going to get is also going to be a random variable. Because if you think about a policy, a policy is going to generate a bunch of random paths. And utility is just going to be the sum of rewards of each one of those. So it's a random variable. So if you remember this example, right? So I can basically have a path that tells me starting in and then stay, and then that ends. So this is one random path. And for this particular random path, well, what is a utility I'm going to get? I'm just going to get $4. That's one possible thing that can happen. If my policy is to, let's say, stay, there is no reason for the game to end right here. I can have a lot of different types of random paths. I can have a situation where I'm staying three times and then after that ending the game. And utility of that is 12. We can have this situation where we have stay, stay, and end. That's the situation. It's all like you get a utility of eight and so on. So you're getting all these utilities for all these random paths. So these utilities are also going to be just random variables, OK? So I can't really play around with the utility. That's not telling me anything. Well, it's telling me something, but it's a random variable. I can't optimize that. So instead, we need to define something that we can actually play around with, and that is this idea of a value, which is just an expected utility. So the value of a policy is the expected utility of that policy. And that's not a random variable anymore. That's actually like a number. And I can compute that number, I can compute that number for every state, and I'm just playing around with value, OK? Is that policy defined for possible states or a particular state? For all possible. So the question is, yes. So when you say value of policy, is the policy basically telling me what is a strategy for all possible states? Well, you're defining a policy as a function of state. And value, the same thing is a function of state. I might ask, what is the value of being an in? So the value of being an in and following policy stay is going to be the value of following policy stay from this particular state, which is expected utility of that, which is basically that 12 value there. I could ask it about any other state too. So I can be in any other state and then say, well, what's the value of that? And then when we do value iteration, and we actually need to compute this value for all states to kind of have an idea of how to get from one state to another state. But. So in one perspective, the way to being in state and a policy given your state in taking the actions. Yeah, and that is what 12 is. And 12, we kind of empirically have seen it's 12, but we haven't shown how to get 12 yet. All right, so actually, let me write these in my list of things. So we talked about the policy. What else did we talk about? We talked about utility. So what is utility? Utility, we said it's sum over words. So if I get, like, reward one, then I get reward two. It's a discounted sum over words. So I'm going to use this gamma, which is that discount that I'll talk about in a little bit, times your word two plus gamma squared times your word three and so on. So utility is you give me a random path and I just sum up the rewards of that. Imagine if gamma is one, I'm just summing up the rewards. If gamma is not one, I'm looking at this discounted sum. So that is utility. But value, so this is utility. Value is just the expected utility. So you give me a bunch of random paths. I can compute their utilities. I can just sum them up and average them, and that gives me value. That'd be bounded. That's a very good question, but we'll get back to that. So in general, if it is a cyclic, it is fine. But if you have a cyclic graph, you want your gamma to be less than 1. And we'll talk about that when we get to the convergence of these. All right, so let's go to this particular volcano crossing example. So in this case, I can run this game. And every time I run it, I'm going to get a different utility. Because I'm going to end up in some random path. Some of them end up in the volcano. That's pretty bad. So I get different utility values, utilities. But the value, which is the expected utility, is not changing really. It's just around 3.7, which is just the average of these utilities. So I can keep running this, getting these different utilities. But the value is this one number that I can talk about. And that's the value of this particular state. And that tells me what would be the best policy that I can take and what's the best amount of utility that I can get from an expectation from that state. All right. So we've been talking about this utility. I've actually written that already on the board. So utility is going to be a discounted sum of rewards. And then we've been talking about this discount factor. And the idea of the discount factor is I might care about the future differently from how much I care about now. So for example, if you give me $4 today and you give me $4 tomorrow, if that $4 tomorrow is the same kind of amount and has the same value to me As today, then it's kind of the same idea of having a discount counter of one. This count of one, gamma on one. So you're saving for the future, the values of things in the future is the same amount. If you give me $4 now, if you give me $4, 10 years from now, it's going to be $4. I care about it, like $4 amount, and I can just add things up. But it could also be the case, like you might be in a situation in a particular MVP, where you don't care about the future as much. Maybe you give me $4 10 years from now, and that doesn't, like, I don't have any value for that. So then if that is the case, and you just want to live in the moment, and you don't care about the values you're going to get in the future, then that's kind of the other extreme when this disclaimer, this discount, is equal to zero. So that is a situation that if I get $4 in the future, they don't like value, like they don't have any value to me, they're just like, are zero to me. So I only care about right now living in the moment. What is the amount I'm going to get? And in reality, you're somewhere in between. We are not just this case where we are living in a moment. We're also not the case that everything is just the same amount, like right now or in the future. And in balanced life is a setting where we have some discount factor. It's not zero. It's not one. It actually discounts values in the future, because future maybe doesn't have the same values now. But we still value things in the future. $4 is still something in the future. And that's where we pick like a gamma that's between 0 and 1. So that is kind of a design choice, like depending on what problem you're in, you might want to choose a different gamma. Question here. So is discounting usually like that? Is it an assessment of risk, or is there like a difference? You could think of it as an issue. It's not really an assessment of risk in that way. It depends on the problem. It depends on in the particular problem, I do want to get values in the future. I have some sort of long term goal that I want to get to. and I care about the future. Like if you're solving a game versus you're solving like, I don't know, like a robot manipulation problem, like it might just be very different like discount factors that you would use. For a lot of examples we would use in this class, we would just choose a gamma that's close to one. Like usually, like for a lot of problems that we end up dealing with, gamma is like 0.9. That's like the usual, like for usual problems. Like you might have a very different problem where we don't care about the future. So then we just drop it, yes. A quick question, is gamma a hyperparameter that needs to be tuned? And is gamma zero the same as 3D all over the field? Gamma, okay, so that's a good question. So is gamma a hyperparameter that you need to tune? I would say gamma is a design choice. It's not a hyperparameter necessarily. In that sense that, oh, I'll pick the right gamma, that will do the right thing. You would want to pick a gamma that kind of works well with your problem statement. And gamma zero is kind of the agreedy. Like you're picking like what is the best thing right now? And I just don't care about the future ever. question back there. There's a game of violence about property because it's kind of memory of what your state is. It doesn't violate the markoff property. It's just a discount of, like, it's about the reward. It's not about how the state affects the next state. It basically affects how much reward you're going to get, or how much do you value reward in the future. It doesn't actually, like, it's still markoff decision process. It's like the states and like your possible actions are reminding us of the rewards. What you're getting, what the, it's affecting the word. Yeah, but it's more called because if I'm state s and I take action a, I'm going to end up in s prime and that doesn't depend on gamma. All right, so, okay, so in this section we've been talking about this idea of someone comes in and gives me the policy, so the policy is pi and what I want to do is I want to figure out what's the value of that policy. And again, value is just expected utility. Okay, so V pi of s is just expected utility Received by following this policy pi from state s, OK? So I'm not doing anything fancy. I'm not even trying to figure out what pi is. All I want to do is I want to just evaluate. If you tell me this is pi, how good is that? What's the value of that? So that's what a value function is. So value of a policy is a v pi of s, OK? That's expected utility of starting in some state. put this here, and then I'm going to move these up. Yeah. So we pi is the valued expected utility of me starting in some state s, OK? And state s has value of pi of s. And if someone tells me that, well, you're following policy pi, then I already know from state s, the action I'm going to take is pi of s. So that's very clear. So I'll take pi of s. And if I take pi of s, I'm going to end up in some chance note. And that chance note is a state action note. It's going to be s. And the action I've decided the action is pi of s. And if we find this new function, this q function, to pi of sA, which is just the expected utility from the chance note. So we have talked about value. Value is expected utility from my actual states. I'm going to talk about q values as expected utilities from the chance notes. So after you have committed that you have taken action a, and then you're following policy pi, then what is the expected utility from that point on? And well, what is the expected utility from this point on? We are in the chance node. So many things that can happen, because I have, like, nature is going to play, and roles die, and anything can happen, and they're going to happen with transition S a S prime. And with that transition probability, I'm going to end up in a new state. I'm going to call that S prime. And the value of that state, again, expected utility of that state is b pi of S prime. All right, so what are these actually equal to? So I've just defined value as expected utility, q value as expected utility from a chance node. What are they actually equal to? So I'm going to write a recurrent that you're going to use for the rest of the class. So pay attention for five seconds. There's a question there. I understand how cemented me of the i3. So both of them are expected value. So one is just a function of state. The other one, you've committed to one action. And the reason I'm defining both of them is to just writing my recurrence is going to be a little bit easier, because I have this state action note, and I can talk about them. And I can talk about how I get branching from these state action notes. All right, so I'm going to write a recurrence. It's not hard, but it's kind of the basis of the next like n lectures, so pay attention. All right, so v pi of s, what is that equal to? Well, that is going to be equal to 0 if I'm in an n state. So if is end of s is equal to 2, then there is no expected utility, that's equal to 0. That's the easy case. Otherwise, well, I took policy pi s. Someone told me, take policy pi s. So value is just equal to q. So in this case, v pi of s, if someone comes and gives me policy pi, is just equal to q pi of s a. These two are just equal to each other. So the next question, what might ask is, actually, let me write this a little closer, so I'll have some space. So this is equal to q pi of s a. So what is that equal to? What is q pi of S a equal to? So this is a pi of S. So now I just want to know what is q value, q pi of S a. What is that equal to? So if I'm right here, then there are a bunch of different things that can happen. And I can end up in these different S frames. So if I'm looking for the expected utility, then I'm looking for the probability of me ending up in this state times the utility of this state. Plus the probability of me ending up in new state times the utility of that. So that is just equal to sum over all possible S primes that I can end up at of transition probabilities of S a S prime, transition probability of ending of a new state, times the immediate reward that I'm going to get, reward of S a S prime plus the value here, what I care about the discounted value. So I'm going to add gamma v pi of S prime, because I've been talking about this next state. Okay? Is this their own series? Okay? So this is the recurrence that we are doing in policy evaluation. Again, remember, someone came and gave me policy pi. So I'm writing this policy pi here. Someone gave me policy pi. I just want to know how good policy pi is. I can do that by computing the pi. What is the pi equal to? Someone told me you're following policy pi. So it's got to be equal to just q pi. What is q pi equal to? It's just some of all the, like the, the expectation of all the places that I can end up at that some over s primes transition probabilities of ending up in s prime times the reward the total reward you are getting, which is the immediate reward plus this counting in my future, okay? for the q value. And then following policy, pi, starting from the passing crime. Yes, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Starting from us. All right, so far, so good. So that is how I can evaluate this policy. So I have these two recurrences. If I have these two recurrences, I can just replace this guy here. And let's imagine we are in the case. Maybe I can use a different color up here. We're in here. I'm just replacing this guy right here. I don't know if it's worth writing it. Imagine we are not in an end state. If you're not in an end state, then v pi of s, well, what is that equal to? That is just equal to sum of transition probabilities as a s prime over s primes times immediate reward that I'm going to get plus discounting v pi of s prime. So this is kind of a recurrence that I have. I literally just combine these two and wrote it in green. If you're not in an end state, so if you're not in an end state, this is the recurrence I have. I have v pi here. I have v pi on this side, too. So that is nice. And that is kind of the place where I can compute v pi. Maybe I can do it iteratively, or maybe I can actually find a closed form solution for some problems. But that is basically what I'm going to do. I have v pi as a function that depends on v pi of s prime. And I can just solve for this v pi. That allows me to evaluate policy pi. I haven't figured out a new policy. All I have done is evaluating what's a value of pi. All right, OK. So let's go back to this example. So let's say that someone comes in and tells me, well, the policy you got to follow is stay. So my policy is to stay. I want to know, I want to just evaluate that. I want to do policy evaluation. When you're doing policy evaluation, You've got to compute that v pi for all states. So let's start with v pi of n. Well, that is equal to 0, because we know v pi at n state is just equal to 0. Now I want to know what's v pi of n, OK, state n. What is that equal to? That's just equal to q pi of n and state, right? v pi is just equal to q pi of n and state. So I'm going to replace that. That's just equal to 1 thirds times the immediate reward, which is 4 plus value of the next state I'm going to end up at, which is end in this case, plus 2 thirds times the immediate reward I'm going to get, which is $4 plus value of the state I'm going to end up at, which is n. So that is just that sum that we have there. The pi of n is 0. So let me just put that 0 there. I'm going to put 0 there. I only have one state here, too. So I just have this as a function of this one state in. So I have an equation. I can find the close form solution of v pi of n. I'm just going to move things around a little bit. And then I'll find out that v pi of n is just equal to 12. So that's how you get that 12 that I've been talking about. So you just found out that if you tell me the policy to follow a state, that is the policy, then the value of that policy from state in is equal to 12. Yeah, so the policy is a function of state. I only have this one state that's interesting here. That's one state is n. So I need to, when I define my policy, I need to kind of choose the same policy for that state. My policy says, in n, you've got to either stay or you've got to either quit. All right. So you can basically do the same thing using an iterative algorithm too. So here, like in the previous example, it was kind of simple. I just solved the closed form solution. But in reality, if you might have different states, and then it might be a little bit more complicated, so we can actually have an iterative algorithm that allows us to find these vPies. So the way we do that is we start with the values for all states to be equal to 0. And this 0 that I put here is the first iteration. So I'm going to count my iterations here. So I'm going to just initialize all the values for all states to just be equal to zero, okay? Then I'm just gonna iterate for some number of time, whatever number I carry, like I would like to. Then what I'm gonna do is for every state, again, remember, the value needs to be computed for every state, so for every state, I'm gonna update my value by the same equation that I have on the board, okay? And the same equation depends on the value at the previous times. So this is just an iterative algorithm that allows me to compute new values based on previous values that I've had. And I started like everything zero. And then I keep updating values of all states and they keep going. So basically that equation, but think of it as an iterative update every round. So you run this for multiple rounds. Every round, you just update your value. And so here is just a pictorially looking at it. Imagine you have five states here. You initialize all of them to be equal to zero. The first round, you're going to get some value, you're going to update it, and then you're going to keep running this. And then eventually, you can kind of see that the last two columns are kind of close to each other, and you have converged to the true value. So again, someone comes and gives you the policy. You start with values equal to zero for all the states, and then you just update it based on your previous value. So how long should we run this? Well, we have a heuristic to kind of figure out how long we should run this particular algorithm. One thing you can do is you can kind of keep track of the difference between your value at the previous time step versus this time step. So if the difference is below some threshold, you can kind of call it done. And then say, well, I found the right values. And then in this case, we are basically looking at the difference between value at iteration t versus value at iteration t minus 1. And then we're taking the max of that over all possible states, because I want the values to be close for all states. So I'm going to talk about the convergence when we talk about gamma factor and the discount factor and basic velocity. Also, how long you should run this to get these is also a difficult problem, and it depends on the properties of your MDP. So if you have an algorithm, MDP, this should work. But in general, it's a hard problem to answer for general Markov decision processes. And another thing to notice here is I'm not storing that whole table. The only thing I'm storing is the last two columns of this table, because that's v pi at iteration t and v pi at iteration t minus 1. Those are the only things I'm storing, because that allows me to compute if I've conversion. That kind of allows me to keep going, because I only need my previous values to update my new values. In terms of complexity, well, this is going to take order of t times s times s prime. Well, why is that? Because I'm iterating over t time steps and I'm iterating over all my states. And I'm summing over all s primes. So because of that, that's a complexity I get. And one thing to notice here is it doesn't depend on actions. It doesn't depend on the size of actions. And the reason it doesn't depend on the size of actions is you've given me the policy. You're telling me follow this policy. So if you've given me the policy, then I don't really need to worry about the number of actions I have. All right. Here is just another like the same example that we have seen. So at iteration t equal to 1, n is going to get 4, n is going to get 0. At iteration 2, it gets a slightly better value. And then finally, at iteration 100, let's say, we get the value 12. And I remember for this particular example, As an example, we were able to solve the closed form. We have policies staying from state N. But you could also run the iterative algorithm and get the same value of tool. That's a problem, right? The number of actions is the size of S prime. No, because the size of S, you might end up in very different states. This depends on your probabilities. The size of s prime is actually the size of, like, the size of states is the same thing, right? You can be worst case scenario, you're going from every state to every state. So just imagine the size of s. Okay. All right, so summary so far, where are we? So we have talked about MDPs. These are graphs with states and chance nodes and transition probabilities and rewards. And we have talked about policy as the solution to an MDP, which is this function that takes a state and gives us an action, okay? We talked about value of a policy. So value of a policy is the expected utility of that policy. So if you talk about utility, we have these random values for all these random paths that you're going to get for every policy. The value of utility is just an expectation over all those random variables. And so for, we've talked about this idea of policy evaluation, which is just an iterative algorithm, to compute what's the value of a state if you give me some policy. Like, how good is that policy? it's a value I'm going to get at every state. All right, so that has been all assuming you give me the policy. Now, the thing I want to spend a little bit of time on is figuring out how to find that policy. Do you have any actions for a problem that are going to change the value of the policies? Be there new actions? So for example, here we only have a stay or quit. If we have a different problem that we can learn another action, a stay quit, or something, trade. If you're going to change the value of the policies, because then we have a new action and then we need to update our policies. So in this case, so far, I'm assuming that the set of actions is fixed. I'm not adding new actions, right? Like even with search problems, like the way we define search problems or the way we are defining MDPs is I'm starting with the set up where states are fixed, actions are fixed, I have stay and quit. Those are like the only actions I can take. The reward is fixed. Transition probabilities are fixed. On there, that scenario. Then what is the best policy I can take? And best policy is just from those set of already defined actions. Next lecture, we'll talk about unknown settings. When we have transition probabilities that are not known, or reward functions that are not known, and how we go about learning them. And that would be the reinforcement learning. Next lecture, I might address some of this. All right, so let's talk about value iteration. So that was policy valuation. So that whole thing was policy evaluation. So now what I'd like to do is I want to try to get the maximum expected utility and find the set of policies that gets me the maximum expected utility. So to do that, I'm going to define this thing that's called an optimal value. So instead of value of a particular policy, I just want to be opt of S, which is the maximum value attained by any policy. So you might have a bunch of different policies. I just want that policy that maximizes the value. So and that is v opt of s. So let me go back to this example. So I'm going to have this in parallel to this example of policy evaluation. I want to do value iteration. So I'm going to start from state s again. State s has v opt of s. That is what I would like to find. Here I had v pie of s. If I'm looking for re-opt of s, then I can have multiple actions that can come out of here. And I don't know which one to take. But any of them, if I take any of them, if I take this guy, that takes me to a chance node of sA. And then I'm looking for q-opt of sA. And from here, it's actually pretty similar to what we had right here. So I'm in a chance node. Anything can happen, right? nature plays. And with some transition probability of S a, S prime, I'm going to end up in some new state and a prime. And I care about v opt of that as prime. So if I'm looking for this optimal policy, which comes from this optimal value, then I need to find v opt. And if I want to find v opt, well, that depends on what action I'm taking here. But let's say I take one of these. And if I take one of these, I end up in a chance node. I have q up to say in that chance node. And then from that point on, with whatever probabilities, I can end up in some s prime. So I want to write the recurrence for this guy similar to the recurrence that we wrote here. It's going to be actually very similar. So OK, so I'm going to start with q, because that is easier. So what is q up of s a? That just seems very similar to this previous case. What is that equal to? What was q pi? q pi was just sum of transition probabilities times rewards, right? So what is q opt? Yeah, so it would just be basically this equation, except for I'm going to replace v pi with v opt. So from q up, I can end up anywhere, like based on the transition probability. So I'm going to sum up over s primes and all possible places that I can end up at. I'm going to get an immediate reward, which is rs a s prime. And I'm going to discount the future. But the value of the future is v opt of s prime. So far so good, that's q opt. How about v opt? What is that equal to? Well, it's going to be equal to 0 if you're in an end state. That's similar to before. So if this end of s is true, then it is 0. Otherwise, I have a bunch of options here. I can take any of these actions, and I can get any q opt. So which one should I pick? Which q opt should I pick? The one that maximizes, which action should I pick? An action from the set of actions of that state that maximizes q opt. So the only thing that has changed here is before someone told me what the policy is, I just took the q of that. Here, I'm just picking the maximum value of q. And that actually tells me what action to pick. So what is the optimal policy? What should be the optimal policy? I'm going to call it pi opt of s. What is that equal to? It's got to be the thing that maximizes v, right? Which is the thing that maximizes this q. So because that gives me the action. So it's going to be the arg max of q opt of S and A, where A is in actions. All right. So this was policy evaluation. Someone gave me the policy with that policy. I was able to compute V. I was able to compute Q. I was able to write this recurrence. Then I had an iterative algorithm to do things. This is called value iteration. This is to find the right policy iteration. This is to find the policy. How do I do that? Well, I have a value that's for the optimal the optimal value that I can get, and it's going to be maximum over all possible actions I can take of the q values. And q values are similar to before, so I have this recurrence now, and then the optimal policy is just an arc max of q. I'm sorry, I can't hear the action. And that is what? Like tied for arc max, like there's two A's. Oh yeah, so you could get two A's, right? So the question is yeah, like what if I have two A's that give me the same thing, I can return any of them. It depends on your implementation of max. So you can return any of them. How am I going to do this at the time? You're five minutes over, MDP1. OK. So good news is the slides are the same things that I have on the board. So qOpt is just equal to the sum that we've talked about. VOpt, I just add the max on top of qOpt, same story. And then if I want the policy, then I just do the argmax of qOpt, and that gives me the policy. I can have an iterative algorithm that does the same thing. It's actually quite similar to the iterative algorithm for policy evaluation. I just start setting everything to equal to 0. I iterate for some number of times. I go over all possible states. And then I just update my value based on this new recurrence that has a max. So very similar to before, I just do this update. One thing is the time complexity is going to be order of t times s times a times s prime. Because now I have this max value over all possible actions. So I'm actually iterating over all possible actions. Versus in policy evaluations, I didn't have a quiz because someone would give me the policy. I didn't need to worry about this. All right, so let's look at coding this up real quick. OK, so we have this MDP problem. We defined it. It was a tram problem. It was probabilistic. Everything about it was great. So now I just want to do an algorithm section, an inference section where I code up value iteration. And I can call a value iteration on this mdp problem to get the best optimal policy. So I'm going to call value iteration later. So we initialize. So all the values are going to become, I might skip things to make this faster. So we're going to initialize all the values to just 0, because all these values are going to be 0. So I define the state's function. So for all of those, the value is just going to be equal to zero. So let's initialize with that. Then you're just going to iterate for some number of time. And what we want to do is we want to compute this new value given old values. So it's an iterative algorithm. We have old values. We just update new values based on them. So what should that be equal to? So we iterate over our states. If you are in an n state, then what is value equal to? 0, right? If you're not in an end state, then you're just going to do that recurrence there, OK? So new value of a state is going to be equal to max of what? The q values, OK? So nu v is just max of q's of state in actions, OK? So now I need to define q. Well, what does q do? q of state in action is just equal to that sum over s primes. So it's going to return some. And it's going to return some over s primes. I define this successor probability and reward function that gives me new state probability and reward. So I'm going to iterate over that and call that up here. So given that I have a state in action, I can get new state probability and reward. What are we summing? We're summing the probability, the transition probabilities times the immediate reward, which is reward here, times my plus my discount, times my v, which is the old value of v, over a prime, over my new state. So that is my q, that is my v, and that's pretty much done. We just need to check for convergence. To check for convergence, we kind of do the same thing as before. We check if value of v and new v are close enough to each other that we can call it done. I'm going to skip these parts. So you can basically check if v minus nu v are within some threshold for all states. And if they are, then v is equal to nu v. We need to read the policy. So policy is just arg max of q. So I'm going to make this a little faster. So the policy is just going to be, well, none if you are in an end state. And otherwise, it's just going to be argmax of our Q values. So I'm just writing argmax here pretty much. I'm just returning the action that maximizes the Q. And then we spend a bunch of time getting the printing working. So let me actually get, yeah, OK. All right, actually right here. So I'm running this function. I'm writing out, actually, these are a little shifted states, values, and then pi, which is the policy. So it starts off, walk, walk, walk. Remember, this is the case where we have 50% probability of tram failing. And with 50% probability of tram failing, these are the values we are going to get. And the policy still walk until state 5 and then take the tram from state 5. Which is kind of interesting because the policy of the search problem was the same thing, too. Okay, so the thing we can do is we can actually, let me move this a little bit forward, we can actually define this failed probability, which becomes just a variable, so you can play around with this. If you pick different failed probabilities, you're going to get different policies. So for example, if you pick a failed probability, that is large, then probably like the policies going to be just just walk and never take the tram because the tram is failing all the time. But if you decide to take a fail probability, that's close to zero, then this is your optimal policy, which is close to the search problem. So it's basically the solution to the search problem. So play around with this, the code is online. This was just value iteration. Value iteration on this tram problem. So I'm going to skip this one, too. All right, so yeah. And then this is also showing how over multiple iterations, you can kind of get to the optimal value and optimal policy using value iteration. So with one iteration, it hasn't seen it yet. So it thinks that the value the optimal value is 1.85. It hasn't updated the values. So like with, I don't know, three iterations, it gets better, but it hasn't still updated. It still thinks it can't get to the other side. And remember, this is the probability of 10%. But if I get to, like, I think 10, then it eventually learns the best policy is to get to 20 and the value is 13.68. And if you go even higher iterations, after that point, it's just fine tuning. So the values are around 13. So you can play around with the volcano problem. OK, so when does this converge? So if this counter factor is less than 1, or your MVP graph is a cyclic, then this is going to converge. So if MDP graph is a sickling, that's kind of obvious. You're just doing dynamic programming over your full thing. So that's going to work. If you have cycles, you want your discount to be less than 1. Because if you have cycles and your discount is, let's say, 1. And let's say you're getting zero rewards from then you're never going to move from your state. You're always going to be stuck in your state. And if you have non-zero rewards, you're going to get this unbounded reward and keep going because you have cycles and it's just going to end up becoming numerically difficult. So just a good rule of thumb is pick a gamma that's less than one, then you kind of get this convergence property. All right. So yeah, summary so far is we have MDPs. Now we've talked about finding policies rather than path. Policy evaluation is just a way of computing like how good a policy is. And the reason I talked about policy evaluation is there's this other algorithm called policy iteration, which uses policy evaluation. And we didn't discuss that in the class, but it's kind of like not equivalent, but you could use it in a similar manner as value iteration. It has its pros and cons. So policy evaluation is used in those settings. Do not leave, please, we have more stuff to cover. And then we have value iteration, which computes this optimal value, which is the maximum expected utility. And next time you're going to talk about reinforcement learning, and that's going to be awesome, so talk about unknown rewards. All right, so that was MDPs doing inference and kind of defining them. I'm going back to the last lecture just to kind of talk about some of the stuff that we didn't cover last time, okay? All right, so if you remember last time, we were talking about search problems. So big switch now, search problems, where we don't have probabilities, and we talked about ASStore as a way of just making things faster. And we talked about this idea of relaxation, which was a way of finding good heuristics. So ASStore had this heuristic. Heuristic was an estimate of future cost. We wanted to figure out how to find these heuristics. Like, how do we go about finding these heuristics? And what idea was just to relax everything, that allows you to come up with an easier search problem. or just easier problem and that helps you to find what the heuristic is. So we talked about this idea of removing constraints. And when you remove constraints, then you can end up in nice situations. Like in some settings, you have a closed form solution. In some other settings, you have just an easier search problem and you can solve that. And in some other settings, you have like independent solve problems. So when you remove constraints, then you have this easier problem. You can solve that easier problem. And that gives you a heuristic. You're not done yet. You have a heuristic, you take that heuristic, and then change your costs, and just run uniform cost search on your original problem. So solving an easier problem is like you're not done when you're solved an easier problem. It just helps you to find a thing that helps for the original problem. So it's kind of like a multi-step thing. So examples of that is, if you have walls, remove all the walls, you have an easier problem. If you solve that easier problem, that gives you a heuristic. And in this case, when you knock down these walls, that easier problem, you have a closed form solution for it. You don't need to do anything fancy. You don't need to do uniform cost search, any of that. You just compute them in hat and distance. And that gives you the heuristic. With that heuristic, you go and solve your original problem. That was one example. Another example is when you remove constraints, you have an easier search problem. So you don't have closed form solutions, but you have an easier search problem. So you might have a really difficult search problem with a bunch of constraints that are hard to do, remove the constraints. So when you remove the constraints, you have a relaxed problem, which is just the original problem without the constraint. That's a search problem. You can solve that search problem using uniform cost search or dynamic programming. And solving that allows you to find the heuristic. Again, you're not done yet, right? You take the heuristic, and then you go to the original problem, change the cost, and run uniform cost. And just one quick kind of example here was when you're computing these relaxed problems, the thing you want to find is the future costs of this relaxed problem. And then to do that, you have this easier search problem. You still need to run uniform cost search or dynamic programming. In this case, if you decide to run uniform cost search, remember, uniform cost search computes past cost. In this case, I really want to compute future cost. So you need to do a bunch of engineering to get that working. In this particular case, the relaxed problem You need to reverse it because when you reverse it, past cost of the reversed relaxed problem becomes future cost of the relaxed problem, that makes sense. So the way I'm reversing this is I'm basically saying start state is n, n state is 1, and my walk action takes me to s minus 1 instead of s plus 1. And my tram action takes me to s over 2 instead of s times 2. And the whole reason I'm doing that is that the past cost of this new problem is the future cost of the non-reverse version, OK? Because I need to use uniform cost search here, OK? So I run my uniform cost search. That gives me a heuristic. And that heuristic gives me this future cost of the relaxed problem, and everything will be great. Another example is I can have independent subproblems using my heuristic. So in this case, like we have these tiles, they technically cannot overlap. Instead, what we are allowing is you're allowing them to overlap. So if they allow them to overlap, I have eight independent subproblems that they can solve. These subproblems give me heuristics, and I can just go with them. So these were just a bunch of examples. And kind of the key idea was reducing edge, like when we are coming up at this relaxed problems, we're reducing edge costs from infinity to some finite cost. So I'm getting rid of walls before I couldn't cross. Like it was infinity, cost of that was infinity. But if I get rid of the wall, I'm making it a finite cost. So this type of method, this is a general framework. So the point I want to make is, generally, you can talk about the relaxation of a search problem. So if you have a search problem P, a relaxation of a search problem, I'm going to call that PR-AP-R-E-L, is going to be a problem where the cost of the relaxation for any state action is less than or equal to cost of state and action. I'll take questions afterwards. All right, so that is a relaxed problem. So the cool thing about that is if you're given a relaxed problem, then you can pick your heuristic to be the future cost of the relaxed problem. And that is called the relaxed heuristic. So this is kind of a recipe, a general framework. If someone asks you find a good heuristic, find a relaxed problem. Future cost of the relaxed problem is a heuristic. And the cool thing about that is it turns out that that future cost of the relaxed problem, which you're deciding to be a heuristic, is also consistent. Because we talked about all these consistency properties and how you want to find the heuristic to be consistent for the solution to be correct. And how in the world am I going to find a consistent heuristic? Well, here is one. Here is one way of finding consistent heuristics. Pick your problem. Make it relaxed. Making it relax means that pick a cost that's less. Pick a relaxed problem where the cost is less than the cost of the original problem. And then future cost of that relaxed problem is just going to be your heuristic. And it's going to be consistent. So proof of that is two lines, so I'm going to skip that. And the quick thing about this, like note about this, is there is a trade-off here. There's a trade-off between efficiency and tightness. So sure, like making things relaxed and removing constraints, it's kind of fun. You have this easier problem, and you just solve it, and everything is great about it. But there is kind of a trade-off between how tight you want your heuristic to be. You shouldn't remove too many constraints, because if you remove too many constraints, then your heuristic is not a good estimate of future cost. Remember, your heuristic is supposed to be an estimate of future cost. So if it is not a good estimate of future cost, then it's not tight, then it's not that great. So there is a balance between how much you're removing your constraints and how that makes finding the heuristic easier versus the fact that you want your heuristic to be tight and be close to your future cost. So don't remove everything, leave some constraints, and then solve it. And you can also do things like if you have two heuristics that are both consistent, you can take the max of that, and you can take the max of that. It's a little bit more restrictive. Maybe that is closer to your future cost. And you can actually show the max of that is also consistent. So we talked about relaxation as a start. What other quick thing I wanted to mention because that wasn't very clear last time? It's structure of the perceptron. We talked about that a little bit too. And we talked about convergence of that. So quick things on that. Structure perceptron actually converges. There was this question that if we have a path that is, let's say, walk, tram, and we end up recovering another path that is tram walk, is that bad? Is that good? Well, turns out that the cost of both of these paths are the same thing. So if I end up getting this path, that's perfectly fine, too. That is also with the same optimal weight. In the example that we have shown in a tram example, I don't think we are able to get to path that look like this because of the nature of the example. So in general, things to remember from structures. Perceptor on this, it does converge in a way that it can recover the two wise, but it doesn't necessarily get the exact Ws, as we saw last time. You might get two in four, you might get four in eights, as long as you have the same relationships that is enough, but you are going to be able to get the actual wise and it does converge. So with that project conversation is going to be next time, do take a look at the website. So all the information on the project is on the website. So if you started thinking about it, look at the project page, and that has something for.
