Timestamp: 2026-05-13T12:34:17.658150
Title: Roan - This 1 hour Stanford lecture on Markov Decision Processes will teach ... 2054245904258142593
URL: https://x.com/RohOnChain/status/2054245904258142593?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 1:22:16

Description:
这份文本是关于马尔可夫决策过程（MDP）的课程讲义。它从确定性搜索算法（如 A*）出发，引入了现实世界中的“不确定性”，并详细阐述了如何通过 MDP 建模、评估策略以及通过价值迭代寻找最优解。最后，文本简要复习了搜索算法中的松弛（Relaxation）和结构化感知机（Structured Perceptron）。

---

### **第一部分：作者蓝图 (Author's Map)**

**1. 核心假设 (Core Thesis)**
在存在不确定性（随机性）的环境中，传统的确定性搜索路径不再适用。决策者必须通过马尔可夫决策过程（MDP）建立模型，将目标从“寻找单一路径”转变为“寻找最优策略（Policy）”，以实现期望效用（Expected Utility）的最大化。

**2. 论据基础 (Evidentiary Base)**
*   **直观案例：** 周五晚上去 Mountain View 的交通选择（自行车、开车、加州火车），强调爆胎、堵塞、延误等随机因素。
*   **数学模型：** 定义状态（S）、动作（A）、转移概率（T）、奖励（R）和折扣因子（$\gamma$）。
*   **核心算法：** 贝尔曼方程（Bellman Equations）、策略评估（Policy Evaluation）迭代算法、价值迭代（Value Iteration）算法。
*   **实验案例：** 火山过河（Volcano Crossing）、骰子游戏（Stay or Quit）、有故障概率的电车问题（Tram Problem）。

**3. 逻辑授权 (Logical Warrant)**
作者通过从“后继函数（Successor Function）”到“转移概率（Transition Probability）”的归纳推理，建立了从确定性到随机性的逻辑桥梁。其核心逻辑是：既然未来是不可预测的，那么最优决策应基于对所有可能结果的加权平均（期望值），并通过递归（贝尔曼方程）来计算当前状态的长期价值。

**4. 划定范围 (Stated Scope)**
*   **适用领域：** 机器人学（执行器失效）、资源分配（需求不确定）、农业（天气波动）。
*   **技术边界：** 假设转移概率和奖励函数是已知的（如果未知，则进入下一节课的强化学习范畴）。

**5. 隐含反对者 (Implicit Opponent)**
*   **纯确定性搜索论者：** 认为只要计算能力足够，就能规划出完美路径的人。
*   **贪婪决策者：** 只看眼前奖励（$\gamma=0$）而不考虑未来长期收益的人。

**6. 预期效果 (Intended Takeaway)**
读者应能掌握将随机问题转化为 MDP 模型的方法，理解价值与效用的区别，并能手动或通过代码实现价值迭代算法以获取最优策略。

---

### **第二部分：冷峻而公平的审阅 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review)**

**1. 强力辩护 (Steelman)**
该论证最有力之处在于其**鲁棒性框架**。通过引入“机会节点（Chance Nodes）”，它将原本混乱的随机性量化为可计算的概率分布。这不仅是算法的升级，更是思维范式的转变：从“寻找通往目标的线”转变为“覆盖所有可能状态的面（策略）”。

**2. 最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)**
> “这些转移概率 T 基本上指定了如果你在状态 S 采取动作 A 结束在状态 S' 的概率。”

**批判：** 这是典型的“模型已知”陷阱。在现实的动态系统（如文中提到的农业或机器人）中，转移概率 $T$ 本身往往是不可知且随时间变化的。如果 $T$ 的估算存在微小偏差，通过迭代产生的最优策略可能会产生严重的鲁棒性问题。该论证依赖于一个完美的、静态的概率世界模型，这在复杂现实中往往是奢侈的。

**3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)**
文本中使用的“电车问题”和“火山过河”是高度简化的网格世界。这种证据选择忽略了**连续状态空间**的挑战。在离散模型中表现良好的迭代算法，在面对无限状态或高维数据时会迅速陷入“维数灾难（Curse of Dimensionality）”，文中对此计算复杂度的讨论（$O(T \cdot S \cdot A \cdot S')$）在实际应用中可能过于乐观。

**4. 隐藏前提 (Hidden Premises)**
*   **马尔可夫性假设：** 假设当前状态包含了预测未来的所有必要信息。但在自动驾驶或医疗决策中，历史轨迹（History）往往至关重要。
*   **奖励函数的客观性：** 假设 $-50$ 或 $4$ 这种奖励值是预先定义的。实际上，定义“正确”的奖励函数（Reward Shaping）往往比求解 MDP 本身更难且更具主观性。

**5. 盲点 (The Blind Side)**
作者忽略了**风险厌恶（Risk Aversion）**。MDP 的核心是最大化“期望效用”，这在本质上是风险中性的。在“火山过河”案例中，即使 10% 的失败概率在数学上是“最优”的，但在涉及生命安全或重大财务风险时，人类决策者往往会选择次优但更稳健的路径。期望值计算掩盖了极端负面结果的不可接受性。

**6. 致命一问 (One Hit Kill)**
如果环境的转移概率 $T$ 是非平稳的（即概率本身随时间变化），或者状态空间是连续且不可穷举的，这个基于迭代更新的“价值表”框架是否还有任何实际的操作意义？

**7. 评估标准 (What Would Settle It)**
需要对比在**模型误差（Model Mismatch）**环境下，该 MDP 策略与启发式控制算法（如 PID 或 鲁棒控制）的生存率对比。

---

### **第三部分：逻辑架构图 (Mermaid Diagram)**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    %% 核心节点样式
    classDef core fill:#E1F5FE,stroke:#01579B,stroke-width:2px,color:#01579B;
    classDef process fill:#FFF3E0,stroke:#E65100,stroke-width:2px,color:#4E342E;
    classDef math fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#7B1FA2,stroke-width:2px,color:#4A148C;
    classDef review fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#C62828,stroke-width:2px,color:#B71C1C;
    classDef search fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20;

    %% 1. 从搜索到 MDP 的演进
    subgraph SG_Model ["🌐 建模阶段: 从确定性到随机性"]
        A["<b>搜索问题 (Search)</b><br/>确定性/后继函数"] -- "引入随机性 (Uncertainty)" --> B["<b>MDP 建模</b>"];
        B --> B1["状态 S (States)"];
        B --> B2["动作 A (Actions)"];
        B --> B3["转移概率 T(s,a,s')"];
        B --> B4["奖励 R(s,a,s')"];
        B --> B5["折扣因子 γ (Discount)"];
    end

    %% 2. 求解机制
    subgraph SG_Solve ["⚙️ 求解阶段: 递归与迭代"]
        direction TB
        C["<b>贝尔曼方程 (Bellman)</b>"]:::math
        C1["V_pi(s): 策略价值 (期望效用)"]:::math
        C2["Q_pi(s,a): 动作价值 (机会节点)"]:::math
        
        D["算法实现"]:::process
        D1["<b>策略评估 (Policy Eval)</b><br/>固定策略, 计算 V"]:::process
        D2["<b>价值迭代 (Value Iteration)</b><br/>Max 动作, 寻找最优 pi"]:::process
        
        C --> D
        D1 --> C1
        D2 --> C2
    end

    %% 3. 搜索算法复习
    subgraph SG_Search ["🔍 搜索算法扩展 (复习部分)"]
        E["<b>A* 启发式搜索</b>"]:::search
        E1["松弛化 (Relaxation)<br/>减少约束 -> 获得一致性启发式"]:::search
        E2["结构化感知机<br/>通过权重学习路径"]:::search
    end

    %% 4. 批判性审阅
    subgraph SG_Review ["🚩 批判性审阅 (Hostile Review)"]
        R1["<b>模型已知陷阱</b><br/>现实中 T 和 R 难以获取"]:::review
        R2["<b>维数灾难</b><br/>无法处理连续/超大规模状态"]:::review
        R3["<b>风险盲区</b><br/>期望值计算忽略了极端风险"]:::review
        R4["<b>马尔可夫局限</b><br/>忽略了历史轨迹的影响"]:::review
    end

    %% 逻辑连接
    B -- "计算核心" --> C;
    D2 -- "输出" --> F["<b>最优策略 pi*</b>"];
    F -- "对比" --> E;
    
    %% 批判指向
    B3 -. "质疑" .-> R1;
    D2 -. "质疑" .-> R2;
    C1 -. "质疑" .-> R3;
    B1 -. "质疑" .-> R4;

    %% 样式应用
    class B,F core;
</Mermaid_Diagram>

**图表说明：**
*   **蓝色区域 (SG_Model)** 展示了从传统搜索到 MDP 的参数演进。
*   **橙色/紫色区域 (SG_Solve)** 构成了课程的核心算法逻辑，强调了贝尔曼方程作为递归基础的作用。
*   **绿色区域 (SG_Search)** 整合了课堂末尾关于 A* 松弛和感知机的复习内容。
*   **红色区域 (SG_Review)** 将“Hostile Review”中的核心批判点直接挂载到模型对应的脆弱环节上（如转移概率对应模型已知陷阱）。

Content:
All right, so let's get into it. So Markov decision processes. So let's start with a question. Let's actually do this just by hand, so don't need to go to the website. So the question is, it's Friday night, and you want to go to Mountain View. And you have a bunch of options, but what you want to do is you want to get to Mountain View with the least amount of time. Which one of these modes of transportation would you use? Like, how many of you would bike? No one would bike? How many people would bike? How many of you would drive? This is popular mountain view, it would be good. Cal trainers, some people would take cal trainer, sounds good, Uber and Lyft. We have a good distribution fly. Yes, yeah, they could never be going on a flight. As flying cars are becoming a thing, like this could be an option in the future, there are a lot of actually startups working on flying cars. But as you think about this problem, like the way you think about it is there a bunch of uncertainties in the world, right? It's not necessarily a search problem, right? You could you could bike and you can get a flat tire and you don't really know that right? You have to like kind of take that into account if you're driving there could be traffic. If you're taking the caltrain, there are all sorts of delay with the caltrain and all sorts of other uncertainties that exist in the world and then you need to think about those. So it's not just a pure search problem where you pick your route and then you just go with it right there are things that can happen that can affect your decision. So and that kind of takes us to mark off decision processes. You talked about search problems, where everything was deterministic, and now you're talking about this next class of state-based functions, which are Markov decision processes. And the idea of it is you take actions, but you might not actually end up where you expect it to, because there's this nature around you and there's this world around you that's going to be uncertain and do stuff that you didn't expect. So far, we've talked about search problems. The idea of it is you start with a state, and then you take an action, and you deterministically end up in a new state. If you remember the successor function, successor of S and A would always give us S prime. And we would deterministically end up in S prime. So if you have that graph up there, if you start in S and you decide to take this action one, you're going to end up in A. There's no other option. That's how you're going to end up in it. And the solution to these search problems were these paths. So we had the sequence of actions because I know if I take action one and action three action, too, I know like what is a path that I'm going to end up at, and that would be idea. So when we think about Markov decision processes, that is the setting where we have uncertainty in the world and we need to take that into account. So the idea of it is you start this state, you decide to take an action, but then you can randomly end up in different states. You can randomly end up in S1 prime or S2 prime. And again, because there's just so many other things that are happening in the world and you need to worry about that randomness and make decisions based on that. And this actually comes up pretty much everywhere in every application. So this comes up in robotics. So for example, if you have a robot that wants to go and pick up an object, you decide on your strategy. Everything is great. But when it comes to actually moving the robot and getting the robot to do the task, like the actuators can fail, or you might have all sorts of obstacles around you that you didn't think about. So there is uncertainty about the environment, or uncertainty about your model, like your actuators that you didn't necessarily think about, and in reality, they're affecting your decisions and where you're ending up. This comes up in other settings, like resource allocation. So in resource allocation, maybe you're deciding what to produce, what is a product you would want to produce. And that kind of depends on what is a customer demand, and you might not have a good model of that, and that's uncertain, right? It really depends on what products customers want and what they don't, and you only have a model, but it's not going to be accurate, And you need to do research allocation under those assumptions of uncertainty about the world. Similar thing is in agriculture. So for example, you want to decide what sort of what to plant. But again, you might not be sure about the weather, if it's going to rain, or if the crops are going to yield or not. So there's a lot of uncertainty in these decisions that we make. And they make these problems to go beyond search problems and become problems where we have uncertainty. and we need to make decisions on their uncertainty, okay? All right, so let's look at another example. So this is a volcano crossing example. So we have an island and we're on one side of the island and what we wanna do, so we're in that black square over there. And what we wanna do is we wanna go from this black square to this side of the island where we have the scenic view and that's gonna give us a lot of reward and happiness. So my goal is to go from one side of the island to the other side of the island. But the caveat is here is that there's this volcano in the middle of the island that I need to actually pass. And if I fall into the volcano, I'm going to get a minus 50 reward, more like minus infinity. But for this example, like you imagine, we were getting a minus 50 reward if we fall into the volcano. So all right, so if I have this thing here on this side, so if my slip probability is 0, which is, I'm sure I'm not going to fall into a volcano. Should I cross the island? You know, yes. Well, I should cross the island, because I'm not going to fall, right? Like I'm not going to fall into that minus 50. Sleep probability is zero. I'll get to my 20 reward. Everything will be great, OK? But the thing is, like we've been talking about how the world is stochastic, and sleep probability is not going to be zero. Maybe it is 10%. So if there's 10% chance of falling into the volcano, how many of you would still cross the island? Good number. So the optimal solution is actually shown by these errors here. And yes, the optimal solution is still to cross the island. Like, your value here, we're going to talk about all these terms. But the value here is basically the value you're going to get at that beginning state, which is the kind of, we'll talk about it. It's expected utility that you're going to get. It's going to go down, because there is some probability that you're going to fall into a volcano. But still, the best thing to do is to cross the island. How about 20%, how many of you would do it with 20%. So a number of people, it's less. Still turns out that the optimal strategy is to cross. 30%, 1%. So with 30%, that's actually the point that we'd rather not cross, because there's a volcano. And then with a large probability, you could fall into the volcano. And the value is going to go down. So these are the types of problems you're going to work with, yes. So two is the reward that you're going to get at that state, and then value compute that you propagated back. We'll talk about that in details on how to compute the value. OK? All right. OK, so that was just an example. So that was an example of a Markov decision process. What we want to do in this lecture is we are going to, again, model these types of systems as Markov decision processes. Then we are going to talk about inference type algorithms. So how do we do inference? How do we come up with this best strategy path? And in the middle, I'm going to talk about policy evaluation, which is not an inference algorithm. But it's kind of a step towards it. And it's basically this idea. If someone tells me this is a policy, can I evaluate how good it is? And then we'll talk about value iteration, which tries to figure out what is the best policy that I can take. So that's a plan for today. Then next lecture, we're going to talk about reinforcement learning, where we don't actually know what the reward is. And we don't know what the transitions are. So that's kind of the learning part of this MVP lectures. So read is going to actually do the lecture next thing on Wednesday, right? Okay, so let's get into Markov decision processes. So we have a bunch of examples throughout this lecture. So let's look at another example. So all right, so actually I do need volunteers for this. So in this example, we have a bunch of rounds. And the idea is you can, at any point in time, you can choose two actions. You can either stay or you can quit. If you decide to quit, I'm going to give you $10, actually, I'm not going to give you $10, but imagine I'm going to give you $10, and then we'll end the game. And then if you decide to stay, then you're going to get $4, and then I'll roll dice. If I get 1 or 2, we'll end the game. Otherwise, you're going to continue to the next round, and you can decide again. So who wants to play with this? All right, volunteer. Do you want to stay or quit? So that was easy. You got your $10. Does anyone else want to like stay? Oh, you got $8. Sorry. The dice is two. So kind of get the idea here, right? So you have these actions. And then with one of them, like if you said to quit, you deterministically will get your $10 and you're done. With the other one, it's probabilistic. And you kind of want to see which one is better and what would be the best policy to take in this setting. So we'll come back to this question. We'll formalize this and we'll go over this. I'm always like always like just to continue ones and then quit like isn't it better to switch? So we're not. OK, so then you need to actually compute what is the expected utility, right? So and that's what we want to do, right? So you might say, oh, I want to stay. And then I get my $4 and I want to quit. And then I get 14. And maybe that is the way to go. That could be a strategy. But for doing that, we are going to actually talk about that. For doing that, we are going to define what would be the optimal policy. One other thing that, for this particular problem, we are going to keep in mind is, I'll talk about it when I define a policy. But the policy, the way we define it, is it's a function of state. So if you decide to stay, that is your policy. If you decide to not stay, that is your policy. You're not allowing searching right now. As I talk about this later in lecture, But I'll come back to this problem. So if you decide that your policy, the thing you want to do is to just stay, keep staying. This is the probability of the total rewards that you're going to get. So you're going to get for with some probability. And then if you're lucky, you're going to get 8. And then even if you're lucky, you're going to get 12. And if you're lucky, you're going to get 16. But the probabilities are going to come down pretty much like really quickly. So the thing we care about in this setting is the expected utility, right? In expectation, like if I run this, and if I average all these possible paths that I can do, what would be the value that I get? And for this particular problem, it turns out that in expectation, if you decide to stay, you should get 12. So you got really unlucky that you got 8. But in general, in expectation, you should decide to stay, okay? And then we actually want to spend a little bit of time in this lecture thinking about how we get that 12 and then how to go about computing this expected utility. And based on that, how to decide what policy to use. OK, and then if you decide to quit, then the expected utility there is kind of obvious, because that you're quitting. And that's with probability one, you're getting $10. So you're just going to get $10. And that is expected utility of quitting. So when you roll a die, I said, if you get one or two, You, you, say, yeah, and then if you get the other, so the two-thirds of it, you continue. So it's a one-third, two-thirds comes from there, okay? All right, I'll come back to this example. This is actually the running examples throughout this lecture, okay? So, you're gonna talk about that, that's what the lecture is about, okay? So let's actually, I do want to finish it in an hour, that's why maybe I'm rushing things a little bit, but we are going to talk about this problem like throughout the class, so don't worry about it. If it's not clear at the end of it, can clarify things, OK? All right, so I do want to formalize this problem. The way I want to formalize this problem is using an MDP. So I want to formalize this as a Markov decision process. Maybe I can just use this. So in Markov decision processing, similar to search problems, you're going to have stakes. So in this particular game, I'm going to have two states. I'm either in the game or I'm out of the game. So I'm in an N state where everything we ended, you're out of the game, you're done, okay? So those are my states. Then when I'm in these states, I'm in each of these states, I can take an action. And if I'm in an N state, I can take two actions, right? I can either decide to stay, right? Or I can quit, okay? And if I decide to stay from N state, That takes me to something that I'm going to call a chance node. So a chance node is a node that represents state and action. So it's not really like the blue things are my states. But I'm creating these chance nodes as a way of kind of going through this example to see where things are going. So these blue states are going to be my states, I mean, S. These chance nodes are over state and action. So basically, the snow tells me that I started with in, and I decided to stay. And a chance note here basically tells me that I started with in, and I decided to quit. Yes? OK, snow, even though it's deterministically. So I deterministically go there. But then from the chance note, that's where I'm introducing the probabilities. So from the chance note, I can probably stick with end up in these different states. In the case of the quit, it's also deterministic. In the case of the quit, in this case, it's deterministic. So in the case of the quit, we say with probability 1, I'm going to end up in this end state. So I'm going to draw that with the edge that comes from my chance node. And I'm going to say with probability 1, I'm going to get $10 and just be done. But if you're in this state, this is actually the state where interesting things can happen. With probability 2 thirds, I'm going to go back to n and get $4, or with probability one third, I'm going to end up in end, and do I get still $4? So that is my Markov decision process. So I had maybe you can keep track of a list of things you are defining in this lecture. So we just define states. And then we said, well, we're going to have these chance nodes. Because from these chance nodes, probably, realistically, we are going to come out of them, depending on what happens to nature, right? Like, this is the decision I've made. Now, nature kind of decides which one we're gonna end up at, and based on that, we move forward. All right, so more formally, we have a bunch of things when we define an MDP. Similar to search problems, like we now need to define the same set of things. So we have a set of states. In this case, my states are in and end, okay? We have a start state, I'm starting within, So that's my start state. I have actions as a function of states. So when I ask what are the actions of the state, my actions are going to be state or quit. What are actions of end? I don't have anything quit. And state doesn't have any actions that come out of it. And then we have these transition probabilities. So transition probabilities, more formally, take a state, an action, and a new state. So S, A, S, prime, and tell me what is the transition probability of that, it's one third in this case. And then I have a reward which tells me how much was that rewarding, that was $4. So I'm defining, so when I'm defining my MDP, kind of the new things I'm defining is this transition probability, which tells me, if you're in state S and take action A, and you end up in S, prime, what is the probability of that? I'm in, I decide to stay, and then I end up end. What's the probability of that? That's one third. Maybe I'm an in. I decide to quit. I end up in end. What's the probability of that? That's equal to one. Okay. And then over the same state action, state primes, like the next state we are going to end up at, we are going to define a reward. It tells me how much money did I get, or like how good was that. So it was $4 in this case, or if I decide to quit, I got $10. And if you remember, in the case of search problems, you're talking about cost. I'm just flipping the sign here. We wanted to minimize cost. Here, we want to maximize the reward, it's just a more optimistic view of the world, I guess. So that is what the rewards are going to be, if I not. We also have this as end function, which, again, similar to search problems, just checks if you are in an end state or not. And in addition to that, we have something that's called a discount factor. It's the stall you gamma, which is between 0 and 1. And I'll talk about this later. Don't worry about it right now. But it's a thing we define for our NDPs. All right. So how do I compare this with search? Again, these were the things that we had in a search problem. We had the successor function that would deterministically take me to S prime. And we had this cost function that would tell me what was the cost of being state S and taking action A. So the major things that are changed is that instead of a successor function, I have transition probabilities, these T's, that basically termed as a probability of starting an S, taking action A and ending up in S prime, and then the cost just became reward. So those are kind of the major differences between search and MVP. Because things are not determinants, OK? All right, so that was the formalism. And now I can define any NDP model, any Markov decision process. And one thing, just one thing to point out is these transition probabilities, this T, basically specifies the probability of ending up in state S prime if you take action A in a state S. So these are probabilities, right? So for example, again, like we have done this example, but let's just do it on the slide again. If I'm in state N, I take action quit. I end up in N. What's the probability of that? One, and then if I'm state in, I take action stay. I end up in state in again. What's the probability of that? I end up in in again, two thirds. And then if I'm state in, I take action stay. I end up in end. What's the probability of that? One third. And these are probabilities. So what that means is they need to kind of add up to one. But one thing to notice is, well, just what is going to add up to one? Like all of the things in the column are not going to add up to one. The thing that's going to add up to one is if you consider all possible these different s primes that you're going to end up at, those probabilities are going to add up to one. So if you look at this table again, if you look at deciding and being stay in and taking action stay, then the probabilities that we have for different s primes are two thirds and one thirds and those two are the things that are going to add up to one. And in the first case, if you're in stay in and you decide to quit, then whatever else primes you're going to end up at, in this case, it's just the end state, those probabilities are going to add up to 1. So more formally, what that means is, if I'm summing over s primes, these new states that I'm going to end up at, the transition probabilities need to add up to 1, because they're basically probabilities that tell me what are the things that can happen if I take an action. And then the transition probabilities are going to be non-negative because there are probabilities. So that's also another property. So usual things. All right, so that's a search problem. Let's actually formalize another search problem. This is, let's actually try to code this up. So what is this search problem? This is the tram problem. So remember the tram problem. I have blocks one through n. What I want to do is I have two possible actions. I can either walk from state s to a state s plus 1, or I can take the magic tram that takes me from state s to state 2s. If I walk, that costs 1 minutes. Means the reward of that is minus 1. If I take the tram, that costs 2 minutes. That means that the reward of that is minus 2. And the question was, how do we want to travel from 1 to n in the least amount of time? So, nothing here is probabilistic yet, right? So, I'm going to add an extra thing here, which says the tram is going to fail with probability 0.5. So, I'm going to decide maybe take a tram at some point, and that tram can fail with probability 0.5. If it fails, I end up in my state. Like, I don't go anywhere. And actually, like in this case, you're assuming you're still losing two minutes. So, if I decide to take a tram, I'm going to lose two minutes. Maybe you'll fail. Maybe you will not. All right, so let's try to formalize this. So we're going to take our tron problem from two lectures ago. So this is from CERAT1. We're going to just copy that. So all right. So this was what we had from last time. We had this transportation problem. And we had all these algorithms to solve the search problem. We don't really need them because we have a new problem. So let's just get rid of them. And now I just want to formalize an MDP. So it's a transportation MDP. The initialization looks OK. Start state looks OK. I'm starting from one. Is end looks OK. So the thing I'm going to change is the first off, I need to add this actions function. So what would actions do? It's going to return a list of actions that are potential actions and going to give in state. So I just copy paste that stuff from down there. to just edit. So it's going to return a list of valid actions, okay? So what are the valid actions I can take? I can either walk or I can tram. So I'm going to remove all these extra things that I had from before and just keep it to be either walking or I'm taking the tram, okay? As long as it's a valid state. So so that looks right for actions. The other thing we had was a successor and cost function. So so now we want to just change that and return these transition probabilities and reward. So it's basically the successor probabilities and reward. So I'm putting those two together similarly before we had successor and cost, now I'm returning probabilities and reward. So what this function is going to return is it's going to return this new state, this s prime I'm going to end up at, and the probability value for that and reward of that. So given that I'm starting in state s, and I'm taking action a, then what are the potential as crimes that I can end up at. And what are the probabilities of that? What is T of SAS crime? And what is the reward of that? What is the reward of SAS crime? I want to have a function to just return these so I can call it later. All right. So I need to basically check for each one of these actions. I can for action walk. What happens for action walk? What's new state I'm going to end up at? So I'm going to end up at s plus 1. It's a deterministic action, so I'm going to end up there with probability 1. And what's the reward of that? Minus 1, because it's 1 minute cost, so it's minus 1 reward. Then for action tram, we kind of do the same thing, but we have two options here. I can end up in 2s. Tram doesn't fail. I end up in 2s with probability 0.5. That reward of that is minus 2. Or the other option is I'm going to end up in state s because I didn't go anywhere because we'd probably 0.5, the tram did fail, and that the reward of that is minus 2. And that's pretty much it. That is my MVP. So I can just define this for a city with, let's say, 10 blocks. Oh, and we need to have the discount factor, but we'll talk about that later. Let's say it's just 1 for now, and I'm writing this other states function for later, but is that, look, right? just formalized this MVP. So let's check if it does the right thing. So maybe we want to know what are the actions from state three? What are the actions from state three? Oh, we need to remove this utile function from before because we don't have it in the folder. So we'll remove that. What are the actions from state three? I have 10 blocks. If I'm in state three, I can either walk or tram. Either one of them is fine, right? So that did the right thing. Maybe we want to just check if this successor probability and reward function does the right thing. So maybe we can try that out for state 3 and walk. So for state 3 and action walk, then what do we get? Well, we end up in 4. And that is the probability 1 with the reward of minus 1. Let's try that for tram. Again, remember, tram can fail. So I'm going to get two things here. So these are the things I'm going to get for Tram. I'm going to either end up in 6 with probability 0.5 with the reward of minus 2. Or I will not go anywhere. I'm still at 3 with probability 0.5. And that is with the reward of minus 2. All right, so that was just a Tram problem. And we formalized it as an MDP. Again, the reason it's an MDP here is that the Tram can fail with probability 0.5. So we added that in when we defined our transition function and our robot and our reward function. Everyone happy with how we are defining MDPs? Yeah? OK, pretty similar to search problems, except for now we have these probabilities. All right, so now we have defined an MDP. That's great. The next question that, in general, we would like to answer is to give a solution, right? So there's a question. So what is the markup part of the MDP mean? So the Markov part means that you just depend on the state. And this current state, like a way we define our state. Remember, our state is sufficient for us to make optimal decisions for the future. So the Markov part means that you're Markovian. It only depends on the current state and actions to end up in the probable sequence, end up in the next state. So the interesting question we'd like to do is, well, we want to find a solution. I want to figure out what is the optimal path to actually solve this problem. And again, if you remember search problems, The solution to search problems was just a sequence of actions. That's all I had. Like a sequence of actions, a path, that was a solution. And the reason that was a good solution was, like everything was deterministic. So I could just give you the path. And then that was what you would follow. But in the case of MDPs, the way we are defining a solution is by using this notion of a policy. So a policy, let me actually write that here. So you've defined an MDP. But now I want to say, well, what is a solution of an MDP? A solution of a markup of the theorem process is a policy pi of s. And this policy basically goes from states. So it takes any state. And it tells me what is the potential action that I would get for that state. So a policy is a function. It's a mapping from each state s in the set of all possible states to an action in the set of all possible actions. So in the case of volcano crossing, like I can have something like this, I can be in state 11, and then a policy of that state could be going south, or I can be in state 21, and a policy for that state is east. If this was a search problem, I would just give a path. I would just say, go south, then go east, and go north. So that would be my solution. But again, if I decide that, well, the policy at 11 is to go south, there is no reason for you to end up at south, right? Because this thing is probabilistic. So the best thing I can do is, for every state, just tell you what is the best thing you can do for that particular state. And that's why we are defining a policy as opposed to giving like a full path. All right, so policy is the thing you're looking for. And ideally, I would like to find this best policy that would just give me the right solution. But in order to get there, I want to spend a little bit of time talking about how good a policy would be. And that's kind of this idea of evaluating a policy. So in this middle section, I don't want to try to find a policy. I just assume you give me a policy and I can evaluate it until you how good that is. So that's the plan for the middle section. All right, everyone happy with it. So far, all I've done is I've defined an MDP, which is very similar to a search problem, it's just probabilistic. So how would we evaluate a policy? So if you give me a policy, which basically tells me that every state S takes some action, then that policy is going to generate a random path. I can get multiple random paths, because nature behaves differently, and the world is uncertain. So I might get a bunch of random paths. And those are all random variables, random paths, sorry. And then for each one of those random paths, I can define a utility. So what is a utility? Utility is just going to be the sum of rewards that I'm going to get over that path. And I'm calling it as the discounted sum of the rewards. Remember that the scount will talk about that, but we can discount the future. But for now, just assume it's just a sum of rewards on that time. So the utility that we're going to get is also going to be a random variable, right? Because if you think about a policy, a policy is going to generate a bunch of random paths. And the utility is just going to be the sum of rewards of each one of those. So it's a random variable. So if you remember this example, right? So I can basically have a path that tells me starting in and then stay, and then that ends, right? So this is one random path. And for this particular random path, well, what is it tells you I'm gonna get? I'm just gonna get $4. That's one possible thing that can happen. If my policy is to, let's say, stay, like there is no reason for the game to end right here. I can have a lot of different types of random path. I can have a situation where I'm staying three times and an after that ending became. And utility of that is 12. We can have this situation where we have stay, stay and end. That's the situation. It's all like you get a utility of eight and so on. So you're getting all these utilities for all these random paths. So these utilities are also going to be just random variables. So I can't really play around with the utility. That's not telling me anything. It's telling me something, but it's a random variable. I can't optimize that. So instead, we need to define something that we can actually play around with, and that is this idea of a value, which is just an expected utility. So the value of a policy is the expected utility of that policy, and that's not around a variable anymore. That's actually like a number, and I can compute that number, I can compute that number for every state, and then just play around with value, okay? Is that policy defined for all possible states or particular states? For all possible. So the question is, yes. So when you say value of policy, is the policy basically telling me, is the policy basically telling me what is a strategy for all possible states? Well, you're defining a policy as a function of state, right? So and value, the same thing is a function of state. I might ask, what is the value of being an in? So the value of being in and following policy stay is going to be the value of following policy stay from this particular state, which is expected utility of that, which is basically that 12 value there. I could ask it about any other state too. So I can be in any other state and then say, well, what's the value of that? And when we do value iteration, and we actually need to compute this value for all states to have an idea of how to get from one state to another state. But one perspective is the way to being in state and in the policy given your state in taking the actions. Yeah. And that is what 12 is. Okay. And 12, like, we kind of empirically have seen its 12, but we haven't like shown how to get 12 yet. Okay. All right. So actually, let me write these in my list of things. So we talked about the policy. What else did we talk about? We talked about utility. So what is utility? Utility, we said, it's sum over words. So if I get, like, reward one, then I get reward two. It's a discounted sum over words, so I'm going to use this gamma, which is that discounted. I'll talk about it in a little bit, times your word two, plus gamma squared times your word three, and so on. So utility is, you give me a random path, and I just sum up the rewards of that. Imagine if gamma is one, I'm just summing up the rewards. If gamma is not one, I'm looking at this discounted sum. So that is utility. But value, so this is utility. Value is just the expected utility. So you give me a bunch of random paths. I can compute their utilities. I can just sum them up and average them, and that gives me value. That we found it. That's a very good question we'll get back to. So in general, OK, if it is a cyclic, it is fine. But if you have a cyclic graph, you want your gamma to be less than 1. And we'll talk about that when we get to the convergence of these. All right, so let's go to this particular volcano crossing example. So in this case, I can run this game. And every time I run it, I'm going to get a different utility. Because I'm going to end up in some random path. Some of them end up in the volcano. That's pretty bad. So I get different utility values, utilities, but the value, which is the expected utility, is not changing really. It's just around 3.7, which is just the average of these utilities. So I can keep running this, getting these different utilities. But the value is this one number that I can talk about. And that's the value of this particular state. And that tells me what would be the best policy that I can take and what's the best amount of utility that I can get from an expectation from that state. All right. So we've been talking about this utility. I've actually written that already on the board. So utility is going to be a discounted sum of rewards. And then we've been talking about this discount factor. And the idea of the discount factor is I might care about the future differently from how much I care about now. So for example, if you give me $4 today and you give me $4 tomorrow, if that $4 tomorrow is the same kind of amount and has the same value to me as today, then it's kind of the same idea of having a discount counter of one, discount of one, gamma of one. So you're saving for the future, the values of things in the future is the same amount. If you give me $4 now, if you give me $4 10 years from now, it's going to be $4. I care about it, like with $4 amount, and I can just add things up. But it could also be the case, like you might be in a situation in a particular MVP, where you don't care about the future as much. Maybe you give me $4 10 years from now And that doesn't, like, I don't have any value for that. So then if that is the case, and you just want to live in the moment, and you don't care about the values you're going to get in the future, then that's kind of the other extreme, then this disclaimer, this discount is equal to zero. So that is a situation that if I get $4 in the future, they don't have any value to me, they're just like, or zero to me. So I only care about right now, living in the moment, what is them on? I'm going to get. And in reality, you're somewhere in between. We're not just this case where we're living in a moment. We're also not this case that everything is just the same amount right now or in the future. And in balanced life is a setting where we have some discount factor. It's not zero. It's not one. It actually discounts values in the future, because future maybe doesn't have the same values now. But we still value things in the future. $4 is still something in the future. And that's where we pick a gamma that's between 0 and 1. So that is kind of a design choice, like depending on what problem you're in, you might want to choose a different gamma. Question? Is discounting usually like that? Is it an assessment of risk, or is there like a difference? You could think of it as an issue. It's not really an assessment of risk in that, but it depends on the problem. It depends on, in the particular problem, I do want to get values in the future. I have some sort of long term goal that I want to get to, and I care about the future. It depends on if you're solving a game versus you're solving a robot manipulation problem. It might just be very different like discount factors that you would use. For a lot of examples we would use in this class who would just choose a gamma that's close to one. Usually for a lot of problems that we end up dealing with, gamma is 0.9, that's the usual for usual problems. You might have a very different problem when we don't care about the future, so then we just drop it. A quick question, is gamma a hyperparameter that needs to be tuned? And is gamma zero the same as with greedy all over the field? Gamma? OK, so that's a good question. So is gamma a hyperparameter that you need to tune? I would say gamma is a design choice. It's not a hyperparameter necessarily. In that sense, oh, I'll pick the right gamma. That will do the right thing. You want to pick a gamma that kind of works well with your problem statement. And gamma zero is kind of the ingredient. You're picking what is the best thing right now. And I just don't care about the future ever. Go ahead. Question back there. Is there a game of violence in Macau property? Because there's kind of memory at what your state is? It doesn't violate the Markov property. It's just a discount of, it's about the reward. It's not about how the state affects the next state. It basically affects how much reward you're going to get or how much do you value reward in the future. It doesn't actually, it's still Markov decision process. I'm going to talk to guys like the states and like your possible actions or amendments with the rewards. So what you're getting, it's affecting the reward. Yeah, what it's more called, because if I'm state s, and I take action a, I'm going to end up in s prime, and that doesn't depend on gamma. All right, so in this section, we've been talking about this idea of someone comes in and gives me the policy. So the policy is pi. And what I want to do is I want to figure out what's the value of that policy. And again, value is just expected utility. So v pi of s is just expected utility. Received by following this policy pi from state s. So I'm not doing anything fancy. I'm not even trying to figure out what pi is. All I want to do is I want to just evaluate. If you tell me this is pi, how good is that? What's the value of that? So that's what a value function is. So value of a policy is a v pi of s. That's the expected utility of starting in some state. Let me put this here, and then I'm going to move these up. Yeah, oops. Yeah, so we pi is the value. The expected utility of me starting in some state s, OK? And state s has value of pi of s. And if someone tells me that, well, you're following policy pi, then I already know from state s, the action I'm going to take is pi of s. So that's very clear. So I'll take pi of s. And if I take pi of s, I'm going to end up in some chance note. And that chance note is a state action note. It's going to be s. And the action I've decided, the action, is pi of s. I have defined this new function, this q function, to pi of sA, which is just the expected utility from the chance note. So we've talked about value. Value is expected utility from my actual states. I'm going to talk about Q values as expected utilities from the chance notes. So after you have committed that you have taken action A and then you're following policy pi, then what is expected utility from that point on? Well, what is expected utility from this point on? We are in the chance note so many things that can happen because I have like nature is going to play and roles die, and anything can happen. And they're going to happen with transition S a S prime. And with that transition probability, I'm going to end up in a new state. I'm going to call that S prime. And the value of that state, again, expected utility of that state, is b pi of S prime. All right, so what are these actually equal to? So I've just defined value as expected utility. Q value is expected utility from a chance node. What are they actually equal? So I'm going to write a recurrent that you're going to use for the rest of the class. So pay attention for five seconds. There's a question there. I understand how cementically you hire different folks. So both of them are expected value. Yeah, so one is just a function of state. The other one you have committed to one action. And the reason I'm defining both of them is to just writing my recurrence is going to be a little bit easier, because I have the state action notes, and I can talk about them, and I can talk about how I get branching from these state action notes. All right, so I'm going to write a recurrence. It's not hard, but it's kind of the basis of the next, like n lectures, so pay attention. All right, so v pi of s, what is that equal to? Well, that is going to be equal to 0 if I'm in an n state. So if is n of s is equal to 2, then there is no expected utility, that's equal to 0, that's an easy case. Otherwise, well, I took policy pi s, someone told me take policy pi s. So value is just equal to q, right? So in this case, the pi of s, if someone comes and gives me policy pi, is just equal to q pi of sA. These two are just equal to each other. So the next question, one might ask is, actually, So let me write this a little closer, so I'll have some space. So this is equal to q pi of S a. So what is that equal to? What is q pi of S a equal to? So this is the pi of S. So now I just want to know what is q value, q pi of S a. What is that equal to? So if I'm right here, then there are a bunch of different things that can happen. And I can end up in these different S frames. So if I'm looking for the expected utility, And then I'm looking for the probability of me ending up in this state times the utility of this state, plus the probability of me ending up in new state times the utility of that. So that is just equal to sum over all possible s primes that I can end up at of transition probabilities of s a s prime, transition probability of ending of a new state times the immediate reward that I'm going to get, reward of s a s prime, plus the value here, but I care about the discounted value, so I'm going to add gamma v pi of s prime, because I've been talking about this next state. OK? Is this, is everyone serious? OK? So this is the recurrence that we are doing in policy evaluation. Again, remember, someone came and gave me policy pi. So I'm writing this policy pi here. Someone gave me policy pi. I just want to know how good policy pi is. I can do that by computing v pi. What is v pi equal to? Someone told me it's your following policy pi. So it's got to be equal to just q pi. What is q pi equal to? It's just some of all the expectation of all the places that I can end up at. That's sum over s primes, transition probabilities of ending up in s prime, times the reward, the total reward you are getting, which is the immediate reward plus discounting in my future, OK? So the q value is, and then following policy pi, starting from s prime. Yes, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, starting from this. All right, so, okay, so far so good. So, so that is how I can evaluate this policy, right? So, so I have these two recurrences. If I have these two recurrences, I can just replace this guy here. And let's imagine we are in the case, maybe I can use a different color up here. We're in here. I'm just replacing, I'm just replacing this guy right here. I don't know if it's worth writing it. Imagine we are not in an end state. If we are not in an end state, then v pi of s will what is that equal to? That is just equal to sum of transition probabilities as a s prime over s primes times immediate reward that I'm going to get plus this counting v pi of s prime. OK, so this is kind of a recurrence that I have. I literally just combined these two and wrote it in green. If we are not in an end state. So if you're not in an end state, this is the recurrence I have. I have v pi here. I have v pi on this site, too. So that is nice. And that is the place where I can compute v pi. Maybe I can do it iteratively, or maybe I can actually find a closed form solution for some problems. But that is basically what I'm going to do. I have v pi as a function that depends on v pi of s prime. And I can just solve for this v pi. That allows me to evaluate policy pi. I haven't figured out a new policy. All I have done is evaluating what's a value of pi. Okay? All right. Okay, so let's go back to this example. So let's say that someone comes in and tells me, well, the policy you got to follow is stay. So my policy is to stay, okay? I want to know, I want to just evaluate that. I want to policy evaluation. When you're doing policy evaluation, you've got to compute that v pi for all states. So let's start with v pi up end. Oh, that is equal to zero because we know v pi at n state is just equal to 0. Now I want to know what's v pi of n, OK, state n. What is that equal to? That's just equal to q pi of n and state, right? v pi is just equal to q pi of n and state. So I'm going to replace that. That's just equal to 1 third times the median reward, which is 4 plus value of the next state I'm going to end up at, which is n in this case. plus 2 thirds times the immediate reward I'm going to get, which is $4 plus value of the state I'm going to end up at, which is n. So that is just that sum that we have there. The pi of n is 0. So let me just put that 0 there. I'm going to put 0 there. I only have one state here too. So I just have this as a function of this one state n. So I have an equation. I can find the close form solution of the pi of n. I'm just going to move things around a little bit. And then I'll find out that v pi of n is just equal to 12. So that's how you get that 12 that I've been talking about. So you just found out that if you tell me the policy to follow a state, if that is the policy, then the value of that policy from state n is equal to 12. Yeah, so the policy is a function of state. I only have one state that's interesting here. That's one state is n. So I need to, when I define my policy, I need to kind of choose the same policy for that state. My policy says, in N, you've got to either stay or you've got to either quit. All right. So you can basically do the same thing using an iterative algorithm, too. So here, like in the previous example, it was kind of simple. I just solved the closed form solution. But in reality, you might have different states, and then it might be a little bit more complicated. So we can actually have an iterative algorithm that allows us to find these v-pies. So the way we do that is we start with the values for all states to be equal to zero. And this zero that I put here is the first iteration. So I'm going to count my iterations here. So I'm going to just initialize all the values for all states to just be equal to zero. Then I'm just going to iterate for some number of time, whatever number I carry, like I would like to. Then what I'm going to do is for every state, again, remember, the value needs to be computed for every state. So for every state, I'm going to update my value by the same equation that I have on the board. And the same equation depends on the value at the previous times then. So this is just an iterative algorithm that allows me to compute new values based on previous values that I've had. And I start with everything zero. And then I keep updating values of all states and they keep going. So basically that equation, but think of it as like an iterative update every round. So you run this for multiple rounds, every round you just update your value, okay? So like here is just a pictorially looking at it. Imagine you have like five states here. You initialize all of them to be equal to zero. The first round, you're going to get some value, you're going to update it, and then you're going to keep running this. And then eventually you can kind of see that the last two columns are kind of close to each other and you have converged to the true value. So again, someone comes and gives you the policy. You start with values equal to zero for all the states and then you just update it based on your previous value. So how long should we run this? Well, we have a heuristic to kind of figure out how long we should run this particular algorithm. One thing you can do is you can kind of keep track of the difference between your value the previous time step versus this time step. So if the difference is below some threshold, you can call it done and then say, well, I found the right values. And then in this case, we are basically looking at the difference between value at iteration t versus value at iteration t minus 1. And then we are taking the max of that over all possible states because I want the values to be close for all states. So I'm going to talk about the convergence and we talk about the gamma factor and the discount factor and basic velocity. Also, how long you should run this to get these is also a difficult problem, and it depends on the properties of your MDP. So if you have an algorithm, MDP, this should work. But in general, it's a hard problem to answer for general Markov decision processes. And another thing to notice here is, I'm not storing that whole table. The only thing I'm storing is the last two columns of this table, because that's V pi at iteration t and V pi at iteration t minus 1. Those are the only things I'm storing, because that allows me to compute if I've converged and that kind of allows me to keep going, because I only need my previous values to update my new values, right? In terms of complexity, well, this is going to take order of t times s times s prime. Well, why is that? Because I'm iterating over t time steps And I'm iterating over all my states, and I'm summing over all s primes. So because of that, that's a complex idea yet. And one thing to notice here is it doesn't depend on actions. It doesn't depend on the size of actions. And the reason it doesn't depend on the size of actions is you've given me the policy. You're telling me follow this policy. So if you've given me the policy, then I don't really need to worry about the number of actions I have. All right. Here is just another, like the same example that we have seen. So at iteration t equal to 1, n is going to get 4, n is going to get 0. At iteration 2, it gets a slightly better value. And then finally, like at iteration 100, let's say, we get the value 12. And I remember for this particular example, this example, we were able to solve the closed form, we have policy staying from state n. but you could also run the iterative algorithm and get the same value of 12. The number of actions is the size of s prime. No, because the size of s, you might end up in very different states. This depends on your probabilities. The size of s prime is actually the size of states. It's the same thing, right? You can be worst case scenario, you're going from every state to every state. So just imagine the size of S. OK, all right, so summary so far, where are we? So we have talked about MDPs. These are graphs with states and chance nodes and transition probabilities and rewards. And we have talked about policy as the solution to an MDP, which is this function that takes a state and gives us an action. We talked about value of a policy. So value of a policy is the expected utility of that policy. So if you talk about utility, we have these random values for all these random paths that you're going to get for every policy. The value of utility is just an expectation over all those random variables. And so far we've talked about this idea of policy evaluation, which is just an iterative algorithm, to compute what's the value of a state if you give me some policy. Like, how good is that policy? What's the value I'm going to get at every state? All right, so that has been all assuming you give me the policy. be the policy. Now, the thing I want to spend a little bit of time on is figuring out how to find that policy. So, for example, here we only have a stay or quit. If you have a different problem that you can learn another action, a stay, quit, or something, trade. If you're going to change the value of the policies because then you have a new action and then you need to update are policies. So in this case, so far, I'm assuming that the set of actions is fixed. I'm not adding new actions, right? Like even with search problems, like the way we define search problems or the way we are defining MDPs is, I'm starting with the set of where states are fixed, actions are fixed. I have stay and quit. Those are like the only actions I can take. The reward is fixed. Transition probabilities are fixed. On there, that scenario. Then what is the best policy I can take? And best policy is just from those set of already defined actions. Next lecture we'll talk about unknown settings, like when we have transition probabilities that are not known, or reward functions that are not known, and how we go about learning them. And that would be the reinforcement learning lecture. So next lecture, I might address some of this. All right, so let's talk about value iteration. So that was policy evaluation. So that whole thing was policy evaluation. So now what I'd like to do is I want to try to get the maximum expected utility and find the set of policies that gets me the maximum expected utility. So to do that, I'm going to define a string that's called an optimal value. So instead of value of a particular policy, I just want to be up to this, which is the maximum value attained by any policy. So you might have a bunch of different policies. I just want that policy that maximizes the value. So that is the opt of S. So let me go back to this example. So I'm going to have this in parallel to this example of policy evaluation. I want to do value iteration. So I'm going to start from state s again. State s has v opt of s. That is what I would like to find. Here I had v pi of s. If I'm looking for v opt of s, then I can have multiple actions that can come out of here. And I don't know which one to take. But like any of them, if I take any of them, if I take this guy, that takes me to a chance note of SA. And then I'm looking for Q up to SA. And from here, it's actually pretty similar to what we had right here. So I'm in a chance note. Anything can happen, right? Nature plays. And with some transition probability of SA to prime, I'm going to end up in some new state and a prime. And I care about v opt of that as prime. So if I'm looking for this optimal policy, which comes from this optimal value, then I need to find v opt. And if I want to find v opt, well, that depends on what action I'm taking here. But let's say I take one of these. And if I take one of these, I end up in a chance node. I have q opt of a saying that chance node. And then from that point on, with whatever probabilities I can end up in some s prime. So I want to write the recurrence for this guy, similar to the recurrence that we wrote here. It's going to be actually very similar. So I'm going to start with q, because that is easier. So what is q up of sA? That just seems very similar to this previous case. What is that equal to? What was q pi? q pi was just some of transition probabilities times rewards. So what is q up? Yeah, so it would just be basically this equation, except for I'm going to replace v pi would be opt. So from q up, I can end up anywhere, like based on the transition probabilities. So I'm going to sum up over s primes and all possible places that I can end up at. I'm going to get an immediate reward, which is rs a s prime. And I'm going to discount the future. But the value of the future is v opt of s prime. So so far so good, that's q opt. How about V opt? What is that equal to? Well, it's going to be equal to 0, if you're in an N state. That's similar to before. So if is N of s is true, then it is 0. Otherwise, I have a bunch of options here. I can take any of these actions, and I can get any q opt. So which one should I pick? Which q opt should I pick? The one that maximizes, which action should I check? I should pick an action from the set of actions of that state that maximizes q opt. So the only thing that has changed here is before someone told me what the policy is, I just took the q of that. Here, I'm just picking the maximum value of q. And that actually tells me what action to pick. So what is the optimal policy? What should be the optimal policy? I'm going to call it pi opt of s. What is that equal to? It's got to be the thing that maximizes v, right? Which is the thing that maximizes this q. So because that gives me the action. So it's going to be the arg max of q opt of s and a, where a is in actions. Oh, nice. OK. All right. So this was policy evaluation. Someone gave me the policy. With that policy, I was able to compute v. I was able to compute q. I was able to write this recurrence. Then I had an iterative algorithm to do things. This is called value iteration. This is to find the right policy iteration. This is to find the policy. How do I do that? Well, I have a value that's for the optimal value that I can get. And it's going to be maximum over all possible actions I can take of the q values. And q values are similar to before. So I have this recurrence now. And the optimal policy is just an arc max of q. I'm sorry. Well, if you're the actor, it's high for hearts. And that is what? Like tied for arc max, like there's two A's. Oh, yes. So you could get two A's, right? So the question is, yeah, like, what if I have two A's that give me the same thing? I can return any of them. It depends on your implementation of max. So you can return any of them. How am I doing? your five minutes over mvp1. OK, so good news is the slides are the same things that I have on the board. So qOpt is just equal to the sum that we've talked about. VOpt, I just add the max on top of qOpt, same story. And then if I want the policy, then I just do the argmax of qOpt, and that gives me the policy. I can have, again, an iterative algorithm that does the same thing. It's actually quite similar to the iterative algorithm for policy evaluation. I just start setting everything to equal to zero. I iterate for some number of times. I go over all possible states, and then I just update my value based on this new recurrence that has a max. So very similar to before, I just do this update. One thing is the time complexity is going to be order of t times s times a times s prime, because now I have this max value over all possible actions. So I'm actually iterating over all possible actions versus in policy evaluations, I didn't have a, because someone would give me the policy. I didn't need to worry about this. All right, so let's look at coding this up real quick. Okay, so we have this MDP problem, we defined it, it was a tram problem, it was probabilistic, everything about it was great. So now I just wanna do an algorithm section, an inference section where I code up value duration, And I can call a value iteration on this MDP problem to get the best optimal policy. So I'm going to call value iteration later. All right. So we initialize. So all the values are going to become, I might skip things to make this faster. So we're going to initialize all the values to just 0, because all these values are going to be 0. So I define the state's function. So for all of those, the value is just going to be equal to 0. So let's initialize with that. Then you're just going to iterate for some number of time. And what we want to do is you want to compute this new value given old values. So it's an iterative algorithm. We have old values. We just update new values based on them. So what should that be equal to? So we iterate over our states. If you are in an n state, then what is value equal to? 0. If you are not in an n state, then you're We're just going to do that recurrence there. So new value of a state is going to be equal to max of what? The Q values. So new V is just max of Q's of state and actions. So now I need to define Q. Well, what does Q do? Q of state and action is just equal to that sum over s primes. So it's going to return sum. And it's going to return some over s primes. I define this successor probability and reward function that gives me new state probability and reward. So I'm going to iterate over that and call that up here. So given that I have a state in action, I can get new state probability and reward. What are we summing? We are summing the probability, the transition probabilities times the immediate reward, which is reward here, times my plus my discount, times my v, which the old value of v over a prime over my new state. So that is my q, that is my v, and that's pretty much done. We just need to check for convergence. To check for convergence, we kind of do the same thing as before. We check if value of v and nu v are close enough to each other that we can call it done. I'm going to skip these parts. So you can basically check if v minus nu v are within some threshold for all states. And if they are, then v is equal to nu v. We need to read the policy. So policy is just arg max of q. So I'm going to make this a little faster. So the policy is just going to be, well, none if you're in an end state. And otherwise, it's just going to be arg max of our q values. So I'm just writing arg max here pretty much. I'm just returning the action that maximizes the queue. And then we spend a bunch of time getting the printing working, so let me actually get, yeah, okay. All right, actually right here. So I'm running this function, I'm writing out, actually these are a little shifted weird. States, values, and then pi, which is the policy. So it starts off, walk, walk, walk. Remember, this is the case where we have 50% probability of tram failing. And with 50% probability of tram failing, these are the values we are going to get. And the policies still walk until state 5 and then take the tram from state 5. OK? Just kind of interesting because the policy of the search problem was the same thing, too. So the thing we can do is we can actually let me move this a little bit forward. We can actually define this failed probability, which becomes just a variable. So you can play around with this. If you pick different fail probabilities, you're going to get different policies. So for example, if you pick a fail probability, that is large, then the policy is going to be just walk, and never take the tram, because the tram is failing all the time. But if you decide to take a fail probability, that's close to zero, then this is your optimal policy, which is close to the search problem. So it's basically the solution to the search problem. So later on with this, the code is online. This was just value iteration and use on this tram problem. So I'm going to skip this one, too. All right, so yeah. And this is also showing how over multiple iterations, you can get to the optimal value and optimal policy using value iteration. So with one iteration, it hasn't seen it yet. So it thinks that the value the optimal value is 1.85. It hasn't updated the values. So like with, I don't know, three iterations. It gets better, but it hasn't still updated. It still thinks it can't get to the other side. And remember, this is probably the probability of 10%. But if I get to like, I think 10, then it eventually learns the best policy is to get to 20 and the value is 13.68. And if you go even like higher iterations, after that point, it's just fine tuning. So the values are around 13. So you can play around with the volcano problem. OK, so when does this converge? So if this count factor is less than 1, or your MVP graph is a cyclic, then this is going to converge. So if MVP graph is a cyclic, that's kind of obvious. You're just doing dynamic programming over your full thing. So that's going to converge. If you have cycles, you want your discount to be less than 1. Because if you have cycles, and your discount is, let's say, 1, and let's say you're getting zero rewards from then you're never going to move from your state. You're always going to be stuck in your state. And if you have non-zero rewards, you're going to get this unbounded reward and keep going because you have cycles and it's just going to end up becoming numerically difficult. So just a good rule of thumb is pick a gamma that's less than 1 than then you kind of get this convergence property. All right. So yeah, summary so far is we have MDPs. Now we've talked about finding policies rather than path. Policy evaluation is just a way of computing like how good a policy is. And the reason I talked about policy evaluation is there's this other algorithm called policy iteration, which uses policy evaluation. And we didn't discuss that in the class. But it's kind of like not equivalent, but you could use it in a similar manner as value iteration. has its pros and cons. So policy evaluation is used in those settings. Do not leave, please, we have more stuff to cover. And then we have value iteration, which computes this optimal value, which is the maximum expected utility. And next time, you're going to talk about reinforcement learning, and that's going to be awesome. So talk about unknown rewards. All right. So that was MDPs doing inference and kind of defining them. I'm going back to the last lecture just to kind of talk about some of the stuff that we didn't cover last time. All right, so if you remember last time, we were talking about search problems. So a big switch now, search problems, where we don't have probabilities. And we talked about ASStore as a way of just making things faster. And we talked about this idea of relaxations, which was a way of finding good heuristics. So ASStore had this heuristic. Heuristic was an estimate of future cost. We wanted to figure out how to find these heuristics. Like, how do we go about finding these heuristics? And what idea was just to relax everything, that allows you to come up with an easier search problem, or just easier problem, and that helps you to find what the heuristic is. So we talked about this idea of removing constraints. And when you remove constraints, then you can end up in nice situations. Like in some settings, you have a closed form solution. In some other settings, you have just an easier search problem, and you can solve that. And in some other settings, you have independent cell problems. So when you remove constraints, then you have this easier problem. You can solve that easier problem. And that gives you a heuristic. You're not done yet. You have a heuristic. You take that heuristic and then change your costs and just run uniform cost search on your original problem. So solving an easier problem is like you're not done when you're solving an easier problem. It just helps you to find a thing that helps for the original problem. So it's kind of like a multi-step thing. So examples of that is if you have walls, remove all the walls, you have an easier problem. If you solve that easier problem, that gives you a heuristic. And in this case, when you knock down these walls, that easier problem, you have a closed form solution for it. You don't need to do anything fancy. You don't need to do uniform cost search, any of that. You just compute them in high-end distance. And that gives you a heuristic. With that heuristic, you go and solve your original problem. That was one example. Another example is when you remove constraints, you have an easier search problem. So you don't have close form solutions, but you have an easier search problem. So you might have a really difficult search problem with a bunch of constraints that are hard to do, remove the constraints. So when you remove the constraints, you have a relaxed problem, which is just the original problem, without the constraint. That's a search problem. You can solve that search problem using uniform cost search or dynamic programming. And solving that allows you to find the heuristic. Again, you're not done yet, right? You take the heuristic and then you go to the original problem, change the costs and run uniform costs. And just one quick kind of example here was when you're computing these relaxed problems, the thing you want to find is the future costs of this relaxed problem. And to do that, you have this easier search problem. You still need to run uniform cost search or dynamic programming. In this case, if you decide to run uniform cost search, remember, uniform cost search computes past costs. In this case, I really want to compute future cost. So you need to do a bunch of engineering to get that working. In this particular case, the relaxed problem you need to reverse it. Because when you reverse it, past cost of the reversed relaxed problem becomes future cost of the relaxed problem, that makes sense. So the way I'm reversing this is I'm basically saying start state is n, n state is 1, and my walk action takes me to s minus 1 instead of s plus 1. And my transaction takes me to s over 2 instead of s times 2. And the whole reason I'm doing that is that the past cost of this new problem is the future cost of the non-reverse version, OK? Because I need to use uniform cost search here. So I run my uniform cost search. That gives me a heuristic. And that heuristic gives me this future cost of the relaxed problem, and everything will be great. Another example is I can have independent subproblems using my heuristic. So in this case, we have these tiles. They technically cannot overlap. Instead, what we are allowing is you're allowing them to overlap. So if they allow them to overlap, I have eight independent subproblems that they can solve. These subproblems give me heuristics, and I can just go with them. So these were just a bunch of examples. And the key idea was, when we are coming up at this relaxed problems, we're reducing edge costs from infinity to some finite cost. So I'm getting rid of walls before I It couldn't cross, like it was infinity. Cost of that was infinity. But if I get rid of the wall, I'm making it a finite cost. So this type of method, this is a general framework. So the point I want to make is, generally, you can talk about the relaxation of a search problem. So if you have a search problem P, a relaxation of a search problem, I'm going to call that PR-AR-EL, is going to be a problem where the cost of the relaxation for any state action is less than or equal to cost of state action, I'll take questions afterwards. All right, so that is a relaxed problem. So the cool thing about that is if you're given a relaxed problem, then you can pick your heuristic to be the future cost of the relaxed problem. And that is called the relaxed heuristic. So this is kind of a recipe, a general framework. If someone asks you find a good heuristic, find a relaxed problem. Future cost of the relaxed problem is a heuristic. And the cool thing about that is it turns out that that future cost of the relaxed problem, which we're deciding to be a heuristic, is also consistent. Because we talked about all these consistency properties and how you want to find the heuristic to be consistent for the solution to be correct. And how in the world am I going to find a consistent heuristic? Well, here is one. Here is one way of finding consistent heuristics. Pick your problem. Make it relaxed. Making it relax means that pick a cost that's less, pick a relaxed problem where the cost is less than the cost of the original problem. And then future cost of that relaxed problem is just going to be your heuristic. And it's going to be consistent. So proof of that is two lines, so I'm going to skip that. And the quick thing about this, like note about this, is there is a trade-off here. There's a trade-off between efficiency and tightness. So sure, making things relaxed and removing constraints, it's kind of fun. You have this easier problem, and you just solve it, and everything is great about it. But there is kind of a trade-off between how tight you want your heuristic to be. you shouldn't remove too many constraints. Because if you remove too many constraints, then your heuristic is not a good estimate of future cost. Remember, your heuristic is supposed to be an estimate of future cost. So if it is not a good estimate of future cost, then it's not tight, then it's not that great. So there is a balance between how much you're removing your constraints and how that makes finding the heuristic easier versus the fact that you want your heuristic to be tight and be close to your future cost. So don't remove everything. leave some constraints and then solve it. And you can also do things like if you have two heuristics that are both consistent, you can take the max of that and you can take the max of that. It's a little bit more restrictive. Maybe that is closer to your future cost. And then you can actually show the max of that is also consistent. So we talked about relaxation as start. What other quick thing I want to mention because that wasn't very clear last time is structure perceptron. We talked about that a little bit, too. And we talked about convergence of that. So quick things on that. Structure perceptron actually converges. There was this question that if we have a path that is, let's say, walk, tram. And we end up recovering another path that is tram walk. Is that bad? Is that good? Well, turns out that the cost of both of these paths are the same thing. So if I end up getting this path, that's perfectly fine, too. That is also with the same optimal weight. In the example that we have shown in a tram example, I don't think we are able to get to path that look like this because of the nature of the example. So in general, things to remember from structures. Perceptor on this, it does converge. It does converge in a way that it can recover the two y's, but it doesn't necessarily get the exact w's. As we saw last time, you might get two in four. You might get four in eights. As long as you have the same relationships, that is enough. But you are going to be able to get the actual y's, and it does converge. So with that project conversation is going to be next time. Do take a look at the website. So all the information on the project is on the website. So if you started thinking about it, look at the project page, and that has something for you.
