Timestamp: 2026-05-08T06:00:46.910072
Title: Rohit - Instead of watching Netflix, watch this 1-hour Yale lecture by Profes... 2041119526927138818
URL: https://x.com/HeyRohhit/status/2052362657836212309?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 1:06:24

Description:
这是对耶鲁大学博弈论公开课（关于“决斗”与策略决策）的深度解析：

---

### **第一部分：作者论点地图 (Author's Map)**

**1. 核心主张 (Core Thesis)**
在涉及时间时机的策略情境中（如决斗、产品发布），最优决策并非取决于谁更强大，而是通过**逆向归纳法 (Backward Induction)** 确定的一个临界阈值 $d^*$。在该点之前，任何行动都是错误的；在该点，无论谁先行动，都应果断出击。

**2. 论据基础 (Evidentiary Base)**
*   **课堂实验：** 海绵球决斗演示（James 与 Robert 两位院长的现场模拟）。
*   **文学案例：** 托尔斯泰《战争与和平》、普希金《叶甫盖尼·奥涅金》中的决斗描写。
*   **现实类比：** 环法自行车赛的冲刺时机、科技公司的产品发布时机（研发与市场占有率的权衡）。
*   **数学模型：** 定义距离 $d$ 与命中概率 $P(d)$ 的函数关系。

**3. 逻辑授权 (Logical Warrant)**
通过两个基本事实构建逻辑桥梁：
*   **事实 A（占优策略）：** 如果确信对方明天不射击，今天应进前一步（以获得更高的命中率）。
*   **事实 B（概率权衡）：** 如果确信对方明天必射击，今天射击的条件是：*我今天的命中概率 $\ge$ 对方明天失手的概率*（即 $P_i(d) + P_j(d-1) \ge 1$）。
*   **结论：** 结合上述两者，从距离为 0 的终点向后推导，必然存在一个唯一的 $d^*$ 切换点。

**4. 设定范围 (Stated Scope)**
适用于“双方各只有一次机会”、“命中即获胜”、“距离越近命中率越高”且“概率分布为共同知识 (Common Knowledge)”的策略博弈。

**5. 隐含对手 (Implicit Opponent)**
反对“直觉式决策”。特别是反对那种认为“更好的枪手应该先开火”或“为了掌握主动权应尽早开火”的盲目冲动。

**6. 预期收获 (Intended Takeaway)**
读者应学会使用逆向归纳法思考，识别并克服“过度自信”和“行动偏误（Proactive Bias）”，学会在策略博弈中等待那个精确的数学临界点。

---

### **第二部分：冷酷且极其公平的评论 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair REVIEW)**

**1. 强化论点 (Steelman)**
该论证最强有力之处在于它将复杂的“心理博弈”简化为纯粹的“概率边界”。它证明了即便对手是非理性的（哈佛学生比喻），在到达临界点 $d^*$ 之前的“不行动”依然是占优策略，这为策略性耐心提供了坚实的数学辩护。

**2. 最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)**
> “我假设每个玩家不仅知道自己的命中概率，还知道对方的命中概率……这些是共同知识。”

这是整个逻辑大厦的承重墙。在现实（如企业商战）中，命中概率函数 $P(d)$ 是高度模糊且非对称的。如果对 $P(d)$ 的估算偏差仅有 10%，计算出的 $d^*$ 就会完全失效，导致决策者在错误的时间点“送死”。

**3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)**
教授引用的文学案例实际上在反驳他的理论。普希金和托尔斯泰笔下的决斗充满了个人的荣誉感、颤抖的手和非理性的愤怒，这些因素使得 $P(d)$ 变得不可预测。海绵球实验是一个“低成本、无风险”的模拟，无法体现当“失败即死亡”时，人类心理对概率感知产生的剧烈扭曲（风险厌恶）。

**4. 隐藏前提 (Hidden Premises)**
该论证默认博弈是“单次且终结性”的。它忽略了**声誉博弈**。在某些情况下，过早开火（即便输掉）可能会建立一种“不可预测”或“极度激进”的声誉，从而在未来的其他博弈中获益。

**5. 盲区 (The Blind Side)**
**信息价值的缺失。** 在模型中，等待只是为了增加命中率。但在现实中，等待的另一个核心价值是**观察**。通过观察对手的移动、犹豫或准备动作，可以修正对对手能力 $P_j(d)$ 的认知。模型将概率设定为静态函数，排除了“学习”的可能性。

**6. 致命一击 (One Hit Kill)**
如果命中概率 $P(d)$ 的提升并非线性的，或者存在一个“疲劳/损耗”阈值，导致距离过近时命中率反而下降（例如过度紧张），那么逆向归纳法的起点将不复存在，整个 $d^*$ 的计算将陷入逻辑循环。

**7. 如何定论 (What Would Settle It)**
需要一个双盲实验：一组玩家知道彼此的准确命中率数据，另一组仅靠直觉估算。如果两组的行动时机显著不同，则证明该理论在“不确定性环境”（即真实世界）下的解释力极弱。

---

### **第三部分：核心逻辑可视化地图**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    A["🎯 耶鲁博弈论: 策略决策与决斗模型"] --> B["核心工具: 逆向归纳法 (Backward Induction)"];

    subgraph SG1["🔵 逻辑构建 (Logical Building Blocks)"]
        direction TB
        S1_FactA["事实 A: 确定性延迟"]
        S1_FactA_Detail["若已知对方下回合不动 -> 我方必等待 (命中率随距离增加)"]
        
        S1_FactB["事实 B: 风险对冲点"]
        S1_FactB_Detail["若已知对方下回合必射击 -> 我方开火条件: P(我中) >= P(敌失)"]
        
        S1_Math["数学表达: P1(d) + P2(d-1) >= 1"]
    end

    B -- "基于" --> S1_FactA;
    B -- "基于" --> S1_FactB;
    S1_FactA --> S1_FactA_Detail;
    S1_FactB --> S1_FactB_Detail;
    S1_FactB_Detail --> S1_Math;

    subgraph SG2["🟢 逆向归纳过程 (The Process)"]
        direction TB
        S2_End["1. 终点分析: 距离 d=0"]
        S2_End_Detail["命中率 100%, 必射击"]
        
        S2_StepBack["2. 逐步回溯"]
        S2_StepBack_Detail["d=1, d=2... 每一阶段利用 '事实 B' 判断"]
        
        S2_Threshold["3. 临界点 d*"]
        S2_Threshold_Detail["不等式首次成立的瞬间"]
    end

    S1_Math -- "应用于" --> S2_End;
    S2_End --> S2_End_Detail;
    S2_End_Detail -- "向后推导" --> S2_StepBack;
    S2_StepBack --> S2_StepBack_Detail;
    S2_StepBack_Detail -- "锁定" --> S2_Threshold;

    subgraph SG3["🟠 行为偏误 (Behavioral Biases)"]
        direction TB
        S3_Overconf["过度自信 (Overconfidence)"]
        S3_Overconf_Detail["高估自身命中率 -> 过早开火"]
        
        S3_Proactive["行动偏误 (Proactive Bias)"]
        S3_Proactive_Detail["渴望掌控权, 误以为 '主动' 等于 '优势'"]
        
        S3_Result["结果: 只有 10% 的人能达到理论命中率"]
    end

    S2_Threshold -- "现实背离" --> S3_Result;
    S3_Overconf --> S3_Overconf_Detail;
    S3_Proactive --> S3_Proactive_Detail;
    S3_Overconf_Detail & S3_Proactive_Detail --> S3_Result;

    subgraph SG4["🚩 批判性审视 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review)"]
        direction TB
        HR_WeakLink["核心弱点: 共同知识假设"]
        HR_WeakLink_Detail["现实中 P(d) 不透明, 计算 d* 极度危险"]
        
        HR_BlindSide["盲区: 风险厌恶与信息价值"]
        HR_BlindSide_Detail["模型忽略了 '向死而生' 的心理压力及观察学习"]
        
        HR_Kill["致命追问: 风险非对称性"]
        HR_Kill_Detail["若失败代价是死亡而非输球, 数学期望是否依然适用?"]
    end

    B -- "理论局限" --> HR_WeakLink;
    S3_Result -- "深层原因" --> HR_BlindSide;
    S2_Threshold -- "效度质疑" --> HR_Kill;
    HR_WeakLink --> HR_WeakLink_Detail;
    HR_BlindSide --> HR_BlindSide_Detail;
    HR_Kill --> HR_Kill_Detail;

    %% --- Node Styles ---
    classDef mainClaim fill:#FFFACD,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:3px,color:#333
    classDef stageNode fill:#E0F7FA,stroke:#00ACC1,stroke-width:2px,color:#006064
    classDef stageOutcome fill:#FFECB3,stroke:#FFB300,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#E65100
    classDef stageTrigger fill:#FFCDD2,stroke:#EF5350,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#C62828
    classDef reviewNode fill:#FFCDD2,stroke:#D32F2F,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#B71C1C
    classDef reviewDetailNode fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#EF9A9A,stroke-width:1px,color:#C62828

    class A,B mainClaim
    class S1_FactA,S1_FactB,S1_Math,S2_End,S2_StepBack,S2_Threshold stageNode
    class S1_FactA_Detail,S1_FactB_Detail,S2_End_Detail,S2_StepBack_Detail,S2_Threshold_Detail stageOutcome
    class S3_Overconf,S3_Proactive,S3_Result stageTrigger
    class HR_WeakLink,HR_BlindSide,HR_Kill reviewNode
    class HR_WeakLink_Detail,HR_BlindSide_Detail,HR_Kill_Detail reviewDetailNode

    %% --- Subgraph Background Styles ---
    style SG1 fill:#F1F8E9,stroke:#689F38,stroke-width:2px,color:#33691E
    style SG2 fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#42A5F5,stroke-width:2px,color:#1976D2
    style SG3 fill:#FFF8E1,stroke:#FFB300,stroke-width:2px,color:#E65100
    style SG4 fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#EF5350,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#C62828
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
We're going to talk about game theory. Game theory is the analysis or the way of analyzing strategic situations. So what are strategic situations? Strategic situations are any setting where the things that you care about, the outcomes you care about, depend not just on your own actions, but on the actions of someone else. All right, so let's think of some examples, but we'll stay along with examples. In economics, an obvious example would be two firms who are competing in the same marketplace. So think of Apple and Google, Apple and Samsung. They're both competing in the market to make telephones, to make these things. Whoops, just knocked off the mic, make these things. And they have various strategies available to them to each other, pricing, quantity, innovation, assuming each other, bribing juries, whatever else they do. So that's a game involving players where they're competing, but it isn't only competition that we can model. We can also model settings of cooperation. So think about teams working on in the same firm, or looking around the room, groups of deans and vice-presidents of Yale who are working together to try and get things done. So Game Theory is also the way you analyze how to herd cats. All right, roughly speaking. All right, so when we teach game through at Yale, what we do is we try to play games in class and we analyze them as a way of teaching the technique but also learning about the game. That's a technique of teaching that's now spread pretty much worldwide and it's what we're gonna do today. So today, I'm gonna play a game, we're gonna analyze that game, we're gonna play the game, we're gonna analyze that game and we hope, I hope, we're gonna learn something as we're going along, okay? So that's what we're gonna do. If some of you have seen this game being played online, if you've seen my online courses, and if you haven't, you know, be able to plug in for looking at the online courses, not just mine, but everyone else's as well. So I need two volunteers for this, and rather than embarrass people, I'm just gonna pick people out. So I'm gonna pick two deans who happen to be here, who didn't know this was gonna happen. I'm gonna pick Robert Post, who's here, and I'm gonna pick James Bondi, who's there, and I'm gonna drag them out the front. So the reason one reason for picking on these two deans is this is a data celebrate Yale. And Robert Post is the dean of the law school, which is quite simply the best law school in the world. And he is quite simply the best dean of the best law school in the world. And James Bundy is the dean of the drama school, which is the best drama school in the world. And he is quite simply the best dean of the best drama school in the world. So why don't we have a little plug for our wonderful schools while we're here. So the audience provides the volunteers. I'm going to provide the props which, on this occasion, is two wet sponges. We're going to have a sponge fight. So these are the sponges, and I'm going to wet them. And this being Yale, I will use nothing but the best. I'm going to use Yale University spring water. Did you know that Yale University had a spring? And we're going to wet things. And the people who custodians with this building are going to look away for a second because I'm going to dribble water on the floor, and Bruce is back there, and he's thinking the facilities bill is going to cripple us, so don't look for second Bruce. All right, and I'm going to squeeze this out and try to make sure they're roughly equal weight. So Joe, are they roughly equal weight? Yes. OK, OK, so we have a blue sponge and a green sponge. I'm going to give the blue sponge to James Bundy, and I'm going to give the green sponge rock post. And the minute I'm going to position them, I'm going to either, well, I'm going to do it now. I'm going to put Robert here. And I'm going to put James here. I'm going to move my coat up the way. All right, here we go. So we're going to have a sponge fight, or if you like, a duel. And the rules of the game are this. We're going to have alternating moves. And when it's your turn to move, you are going to have to make a choice. And the choice is going to be whether to throw your sponge at your opponent, or whether to take a step forward. If you throw the sponge and hit your opponent, you win. If your opponent throws his sponge and hits you, you lose. Simple rules. We'll need a few specifications. One important specification is, well, the most important specification is this. Each player only has one sponge. And once they've thrown their sponge, if they miss, the game continues. All right, so we could work out the strategies in great detail, but that's not, it's just realize what's going to happen. So if you throw your sponge and you miss, since you have to keep on stepping forward, eventually, the other player is going to be right on top of you and it's going to basically plonk his sponge on your head. All right, so if you throw a sponge and miss, you're going to lose. All right, but we will play that through and see what happens. Two other rules, minor rules. Each step has to be about a yard to keep things fair. And this is a rule that I don't know work in America, but let's see. Gentleman never duck, okay? All right, all right, all right, all right. So we'll see that, okay. So everyone understand the rules? All right, so we'll make James player one and Robert player two. I'm exploiting your other, I apologise, but Dean's meant to be exploited by Provost. It kind of fits in the role. So James, you want to throw your sponge or step? I think it's there. Okay, so it's a step and now it's Robert's turn and he's also going to step and now it's James turn. He's also going to step. All right, now it's Roberts turn. Now this point, it's just pause a second and there's asked people what they think people should do. It's James's turn. You can all see the situation. One of them is we think about in game theory is how to put yourself in the shoes of other people. So imagine you're in James' shoes right now. Would you throw or would you step? Step, I don't know the step. Okay. They're all saying so. Then trust her arm. I don't know how you were at baseball. It's the same question now for Robert. Who thinks he should throw? who thinks he should step? They don't really trust the arms of the deans, okay? All right, all right, and now, yes, yes. No dodging, no dodging, no land, no land. Again, gentlemen, never do things like that. This is a strictly gentlemanly game, all right? So James's turn, who thinks, James's turn? Who thinks, who thinks, who thinks, who thinks, who thinks, you think throw? Shankar says throw, raise your hand if you think throw. Raise your hand if you think step. Well, it's up to you. We don't know that. We don't know that. And it's a pretty light sponge. We'll get there. We'll get the whole that thought, but we will get exactly that idea, all right. So throw a step. Now don't want people to think, throw a step. Who thinks throw now? Who thinks step now? Well, up to you. Anything more even? Jay, throw a step. Now let's have a poll again. Who thinks throw? Who thinks step? The people at the front are saying throw. They've got to be a coincidence. But David Twenton is saying anywhere on the body. Anywhere on the body. David is saying throw, and he is the best judge of uncertainty in the run, so. Oh, I'm not sure. I don't know if anybody's ever done anything. So I have to find out. All right, ready? Oh. Game continues. So I assume we're going to step. And step. And step. And step. All right. So I want to get you guys to sit here for a minute, because I'm going to use you in a second. All right, so I'm going to victimize our volunteers. A little bit more later. Let's talk about this game a little bit and see if we can learn something from it. And we were already being to draw out some lessons there. And we'll draw out more as we go along. So first, why is this game interesting? So one reason this game is interesting is it corresponds to a dual, a dual with baskets, I guess. more serious than sponges. And for the people in the room who are a Russian literature specialist, you'll know that there are plenty of duels in 19th century Russian literature, a little bit of French literature. Probably the most famous, I'm guessing, are the one in war and peace, all right, and the one in Yagin, the Pushkin one, which Ikovsky, if you prefer that version, There are many, many others. In the Warren P's version, there are other examples, very examples. Oh, yes, not. Better? Better? More up? OK. Higher, higher. Better? Better? Good. OK, so in the Tolstoy version, in the Warren P's version, I think we are led to believe that the hero Pierre threw another phrase onto it. Shoots his mask it too early, and he kind of gets lucky and kind of wings dollar off. And I know that's a spoiler alert, but that actually happens about page. That's about page 300 in the novel, which means it's in the first half of the book. So there's plenty more after that. In the push-in version, and in Yegan, in Yegan kills Lemsky, it's a critical event of the poem. And I think the main lesson we should get from this for dueling is don't du, rather than how to du, just don't du. But if you did find yourself on a time machine in 19th century Russia, this might help. But there's more to this idea than just duels. There are games elsewhere where the critical decision is when to do something. There are games when what matters is what you would do. And there are games where what matters is when you would do it. And there's no question what you're going to do. You're going to throw the sponge. But the critical question is when you would do it. Let me give you an example. How many of you've watched the Tour de France on TV? A fair number of you? surprisingly few, but in the Tour de France it's a bike race, right? In the Tour de France, in each stage of the Tour de France, one of the critical decisions that each rider has to make is they have to decide when to try to break away from the paladin, from the pack, right? And if you break away too early in these long stages, for sure you're going to be reeled in, because I have very long distances, the paladin will go faster than you can go. And if you break away too late, then either someone else will break away or just one of the sprints this will win, right? So the key decision that is, is, is when to go. We're not, not when to throw this far. When should I break away? There's even a movie, American movie called Breaking Away. All right? So this is one of the main games within a game in bike racing. It isn't the main game within the game in bike racing. The main game within the right game in bike racing is trying to figure out where to hide your steroids. But this is, all right? But this is important. Let me give you an economic example. In, in our business example, in business, you can imagine two firms who are both developing a new technology. And that technology could be a new way to book etiquettes online, for example. A better way of doing that than the existing one. So both companies are busy doing R&B and trying to perfect this new software, or hardware that happens to be, and they have to decide when to launch their software. And the problem here is, if you launch too early when the thing hasn't been perfected yet, it might not work correctly, And you're not going to get a second chance, right? Basically, if it doesn't work, no one's going to trust it. And if you launch too late in this particular market, the market, I mean, you can think of other examples, when this particular market, then the other guy will have launched already, the other firm will have launched already, his or her firm will have established a foothold and probably is going to end up becoming the standard and being the whole market. So this is an example of a market where it probably end of the day, there's only going to be one player. So getting the critical foothold matters. But if you go too early, you launch too early, You're going to not be trusted by customers if you launch too late, someone else would have established the standard. So that's about launching a product, not launching a sponge, but basically the math of it is the same. All right. So we're going to analyze this game. We're going to use these to analyze the game. And I'm going to do a little bit of work on the board. Everyone to realize that when I say, we, I mean we. So I'm going to help you along, but you're going to solve this with me. So this is not going to be me lecturing. That's what we do at Yale. We get people to participate. We just did. So we're going to try and learn this together. So just to get to set things up before we do that, let me just establish a tiny bit of notation and draw a picture. All right, so just a very simple bit of notation. I'm very kind of small. I'm hoping it's going to be visible. Let p1 of d. This is the orientation I'm going to use. This is the only on a mathy thing, let P1 of D be the probability, so I'll call that prob, that one hits at distance D. All right, I'm going to use P1D to say we have to write it every time. P1D is the probability that player one, who I guess was, who was player one, was James, hits, worry to shoot for draw a sponge at distance d. And similarly, let p2 of d be the same thing for plating. So I'm going to draw what I think these probabilities look like. I'm going to use a picture. And we're going to use this picture for a while. So the notation is not as important as the picture. How low can I go before I'm going to lose the back of the road? Oh, higher? Higher? OK. Is that OK, Charles? No. Higher still? Way higher. OK. I'm going to get that. I'm going to delete the top line. And I'm going to, everyone know what P1D is now? All right. I'm also going to push this back, perhaps. So a little bit of angle, isn't it? I'm going to hold it up on the stage, better at all. All right, so let's try and do it right at the top here. Is that OK? OK, Charles? Yeah, OK, good. All right, so on this axis, I'm going to put D, which is distance. And on this axis, I'm going to put probabilities. And I'm going to make some assumptions about the way in which these probabilities of hitting depend on distance. And at least two of these assumptions, I think, are inoffensive, and the third one is offensive. So the first thing I'm going to assume is that if you were at distance 0, and you shot at distance 0, what would be the probability that you hit if you shoot at distance 0? One, OK? So one. So that's an assumption, but it seems a reasonable assumption. So I'm going to assume that these probabilities start at one if we were at distance 0. And I'm drawing this as distance, but of course, the game is really going in this direction. So we're starting far away and getting closer, but I'm going to draw it in a distance in a standard way going left to right. So the second assumption I'm going to make is that as you get further away, the probability of your hitting goes down. So the further away you are, the less likely you are to hit if you shoot at that distance. So I don't know, it could not be like this. Same. It doesn't have to be exactly like this. I'm just going to assume it slopes downwards. Now I'm not going to assume that both players are the same here. So it could be the case that the other person has a different shape curve that does this. And actually, for what I'm going to say today, it wouldn't matter if these things crossed. But all I care about is that they're both bound with sloping. So in this case, perhaps this one is P1 of D. It's player 1's probability of hitting. And this is player 2. All right, so the way I've drawn it, who is the better shot? Player 1 or player 2? Player 2 is the better shot, because at any distance we happen to talk about, were they to shoot at that distance? Player 2 has a higher probability of hitting. They were OK with that, so Player 2 is the better shot. Now, again, I don't need that assumption. I just need them to be down and slow. It could be that Player 1 is better at shooting at close distances, and Player 2 is better at shooting at long distances. That's fine. But we'll use this one today, doesn't it? We'll map. So so far, I haven't assumed anything particularly difficult, I think. Here's the difficult thing. I'm now going to make an assumption that's not real, But I'm going to make this assumption so we can analyze it today, what is most of your first ever game through it, actually. So I'm going to make an assumption that's not true, but will help us analyze it. It's hard enough even with this assumption. All right, sometimes it's useful to make a simplifying assumption. I'm going to assume that each player not only knows their own probability of hitting, but they also know the other person's probability of hitting. So I'm going to assume, actually, I'm to move more than that, but I'm going to assume that these are commonly known. So I'm going to assume that player 1 knows their own ability. they know the other person's ability and they know that the other person knows their ability and so on and so forth. So I'm going to assume that's all known, all right, so that's a big assumption, but it's enough for today to solve that, all right, I'm going to assume that these are known. All right, now I mentioned it, in fact, here's the case that one of these players is known to be a better shot than the other player. Let's ask ourselves a question, who should shoot first, the known better shot, or the known less good shot, who should shoot first, a known better shot, or the known less good shot? Well, here we are playing the game, who should meaning normally put them in their shoes, if you want to have in their shoes, when you're in that person's shoes, from that person's point of view, who do you think should shoot first? Who thinks the better shot should shoot first? So hang on, let's have a poll. Who thinks the better shot should shoot first, raise your hand? Who thinks the less good shot should shoot first? who is hedging their bets. All right, so let me try to talk it through. So the people, I'm guessing, people are thinking the baddest shot should shoot first. They're thinking something like this. They say, well, the baddest shot has a baddest shot if you hit in the other person at this distance. So you can pair two people with equal distance. The person who's more likely to hit is the baddest shot to the baddest shot should shoot first. I don't know exactly where they should shoot, but the point at which they should shoot is earlier since they're the baddest shot. All right, and then the people on the other side, I'm guessing, tell me, are thinking something like this. saying, well, the other guy is a better shot than me. So I better shoot first to preempt him from shooting me. Is that all right? And we could take this further. Then the better shot could think, hang on a second. I know this is all known, right? So I know the other guy knows that I'm the better shot. And therefore, thinks I'm going to shoot first. And therefore, he's going to shoot first to preempt me shooting him. So maybe I should move even earlier to preempt him from trying to preempt me. All right? And we could go on with this discussion for a while. And I think once we've opened up this particular Pandora's Box, you can see it's not going to be that easy, right? It's not obvious who should shoot first. At first, it seems obvious, it's got to be the baddest shot, but it's not obvious at all, all right? So here's what we're going to do. We are going to figure out, I'm going to emphasize that word, we again, we are going to figure out who should shoot, and we are going to solve this exactly. We're going to figure out exactly when they should shoot. All right, so we're going to figure that out, all right? for the physicists and mathematicians in the room, and I can see some, you know the answer already, but pretend you don't, all right? All right, so, all right. On the way, I'm going to point out two ideas, I hope I remember to do this, that are more general than just this game, all right? So we're going to work through this game, but since I want to use this as an illustration for ideas you might use elsewhere in life or when you're playing games, or wherever, I'm going to try and draw out two larger ideas as kind of take home things for you, all right? So remind me to do that. I forget. OK. Oh, OK. Pushkin with me. Somebody can have a copy of what I was going to read it out, but I guess we haven't got time. All right. So to do this, we're going to do this. So one of the things we're going to learn, this is not one of my big general ideas that isn't a bad one. One of the things we should learn is when you have a difficult problem like this, it's a good idea to try to break it down into some smaller problems. Because the whole problem just seems unmanageable. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to break it down into two pieces, see if we can figure out to do in two easy pieces and then use those pieces as building blocks to try and get the general answer. Okay, that's going to be my strategy here. Alright, so the first building block, we'll call it A, building block A. And building block A is going to be a question. Alright, so for both these building blocks, I'm going to assume, I don't want to write this bit, I'm going to assume that no one has shot yet. All right, so assuming no one has, I could write that top. Assuming no one has shot yet, then if player I knows at distance d, say, there they are at d, the other person, let's call the other person j, that j will not shoot or throw it in the fur. Next turn. Can I use the word tomorrow for next turn? It'll save us, have a great next turn every time, but we'll not, we'll, we'll, we'll, will not shoot tomorrow when it's player J's turn. Then what? So your player I, let's say you're Robert, and you've got your sponge, and James still has his sponge, and it's your turn. And for some reason, you know you, Robert, know that James is not going to throw next turn, assuming that no one threw it. Should you throw now or not? You should not throw, right? It's not throw. Why should you not throw now? In that second. You're going to better show us next time, right? Because if you knew that the other guy is not going to shoot next turn tomorrow, then you're going to get a better shot the day after tomorrow. It doesn't mean you're necessarily shooting the day after tomorrow, but you're certainly shooting the day after tomorrow is better than shooting now. Is that right? Everyone okay with that? So this is meant to be the easy fact. So let's make sure this one's, this is good, yep. So I know the other person's not going to shoot tomorrow. I should not shoot now. I should wait till the day after tomorrow. Good? David, we're going on that. Okay, I'm checking because he's my teacher. All right, then do not shoot. All right, all right, so that was fact A. So fact B, you can get a guess what it's going to say. It's going to say, assuming no one has shot yet, suppose that I knows at distance D that J will shoot tomorrow. Same thing with will not replace in will. So again, suppose you're Robert, no one shot the sponge yet, no one's thrown the sponge, and you, for whatever reason, you know that if you don't shoot now, James is going to shoot tomorrow. What should you do? All right, depends. It depends. It does indeed depend. What does it depend on? Depend on distance. What else does it depend on? Depend on distance. Okay, so we're getting better now. Depend on distance, and the reason It depends on distance, it depends on the probabilities. And it indeed depends on who's the better shot. So it's going to depend on all those things. It's going to be more precise. So that's right. It does depend on distance. It depends on distance because the probability is depend on distance. And the probability is themselves depend on who's the better shot. So it's right. It depends on those things. Can we be more precise? Close. Oh, I guess you're 100% if you miss it, so. Second? He's an engineer. It's a notion of the engineer, yeah? That's right. So OK, so here's the answer. That's right, so what do you have to compare? You have to get, yeah, go ahead. True, that's a good point, actually, but notice that I've assumed that I've done that here. So the assumption that you know these curves means you really do know what these probabilities are. So in some sense, even though we didn't play it that way, we've assumed that you know the weight of the sponge. So here's our difference between reality and the assumption. So in reality, James probably doesn't know his own ability all the weight of the sponge, but we're going to assume for today that he does just to keep things simple. So let's come back to that, it depends again. So what does it depend on? If I throw now, let's state the question again for my answer. The question is, if no one has thrown yet, and if I know that you are going to throw tomorrow, if I don't throw today, try. I know that you are going to throw tomorrow, if I don't throw today, what should I do? That was the question. And the answer is it depends, and then what does it depend on? What do we need to compare? We need to compare what happens if I throw? If I throw, then my probability of winning the game is the probability that I hit the other person. If I wait, knowing that he's going to shoot me tomorrow, or shoot at me tomorrow, then my probability of winning the game is the probability that he misses tomorrow. So I have to compare the probability of my hitting, if I throw today, with the probability of him missing, if I leave it and let him throw tomorrow. That makes sense? We compare apples with apples or oranges with oranges. So the answer is, then, shoot or throw. Shoot. If. All right, so let's use notation. P-I-D. That's the probability that I hit if I throw today. is bigger. We'll make it bigger than the equals. Let's not worry about the equals from now. It doesn't really matter. So we don't make it bigger than the equals us for today. PID is greater than equal to the probability that he misses tomorrow. And that's 1 minus pj d minus 1. Because we'll be closer together tomorrow. So this is the probability that I hit today if I shoot. And this is the probability that if I don't shoot, and he shoots then shoots at me, This is the probability that he misses tomorrow. Everyone OK? That one minus makes it the probability of him missing and D minus one because we're closer together tomorrow. All right? Are we OK with that? Yeah? Somebody can wave at the night. It's OK. It's OK to be able to try to do it again. Job. Good. Good to do it again. Yes? On. OK. So this is the probability of winning by my hitting. And this is the probability of me winning by his missing. OK. Now I'm actually going to do some real math. And I know that some of you didn't excel in math and college, and not pretty math and nervous. So this is the only actual math I'm going to do. So those people are nervous. Can you please hold onto your seats underneath the cushions? Just for a second. I'm going to add PJD minus 1 to both sides of this thing. All right, that's the only math I'm going to do here. OK, so this is the same as saying, Shoot if and only if PID plus PJ D minus 1 is greater than equal to 1. OK, we're OK with that bit of math. I just added something to both sides of an inequality. Yeah? I know the physicists are OK with that. I mean, everyone else. Is that going to be too hard to see? Should I drag it back? All right, can people, Charles, can you see that up? It needs to be higher. OK, we're going to raise it up. How much higher? If it was here, it would be OK. OK, so we'll just rewrite it. Da-da-da-dam. Shoot. Here, if I'm going to rewrite this rearranged equation, which is PID plus PJD minus 1 is greater than equal to 2. So that was OK? Yeah. OK. All right, so what do we know now? Now we know what you should do if you know the other person's not going to shoot, that is to say you should step. And we know what you should do if you know the other person is going to shoot, which is you should shoot if and only if this is bigger than one. Let's go back to our picture. Let's put some steps in. So these are very little steps, because it's a very little picture. I'm not insulting the foot size of the beans, it's just that I've scaled it down, okay? And let's see, where would this be roughly? So let's ask the question, when is this inequality met? And when is it not met? So at the beginning of the game, when people are out here, if we ask the question, is PID, or P1D at the beginning, I, p1d plus p2d minus 1, is it bigger than 1? Is it bigger than 1 out here? No, it's small. It's a two-small thing. So it's going to be smaller than 1. On the other hand, once we're in here, once we're in really close, the sum of these two problems is as bigger than 1. OK? Are we OK with that? And there's going to be a critical point when, for the first time, the inequality switches from being incorrect to correct, from being false to being true. All right, and we're going to call that distance the star. All right, so I'm going to draw into approximately here about the pretend it's accurate. So what are we saying here? We're saying this inequality, which I'm claiming is going to be important, but none of you know why yet. I'm claiming is going to be important. This inequality is not met, not met, not met, not met, not met, not met, not met, not met, not met, not met. And then it's met, met, met, met, met, met, met. OK? OK? Good. So now let's make a claim and then prove the claim. So I claim that the following is true. I claim that nobody should throw their sponge until D star. But whoever's turn it is, at D star, should throw it. And it's to be the case that they didn't throw at D star, then the next person should throw at D star minus 1. So here's my claim. Nobody throws before D star, but at D star, you throw whoever it is. OK, that's what we're going to try and convince you to that's true. All right. To convince you that this is true, we're going to use these two facts and these two stuages. All right? So I'm going to bring my stuages up again and convince them. We're going to, if this was ESPN, we would be playing things in slow-mo. I don't have, actually in the drama school they probably have that, but I don't have slow-mo in here. So we're going to play slow-mo in kind of imagined slow-mo. Here we are back at the beginning of the game and we're going to do slow-mo. And here we are, who's first, I forgot. So James was first, he's player one, and he is thinking, what should he do? Should he throw or step? And we know the answer, but let's just walk through it slowly. So James can think that the following way, suppose Robert was not gonna throw next go. Suppose it's the case that Robert is not gonna throw next go. Then which fact should he use? Should he use fact A or fact B? A, and what would his conclusion be? Step, okay? That's one thing that Robert could think. So one thing that James would think. But the other thing James could think is he could think, suppose Robert is gonna throw next turn, right? So if James thinks that Robert is gonna throw next turn, then he should use fact B, and the conclusion should B, Well, if he's in fact B, James should throw if his James's probability today plus Robert's probability tomorrow, there it is, I've just drawn his lines, is bigger than 1. Is it bigger than 1? No. So he should step. So in this case, whether James thinks that Robert is going to throw tomorrow or thinks that Robert is not going to throw tomorrow, you arrive at the same conclusion, Namely, you should step. And therefore, you should step. OK? Step. All right, all right. So let's do this once more. And Robert, you'll see the same idea. So I'll do it faster. I can speak fast. Here's Robert. Robert is thinking what James is going to do. If Robert thinks that James is not going to throw tomorrow, then by fact, A, Robert should step. And if Robert thinks that James is going to throw tomorrow, then he should use fact B and look at these lines and here and say throw if this line plus this line is bigger than one, but they're not bigger than one. smaller than one, and therefore either way, you should step, so you should step. Okay? We're on okay with that argument. Okay? Okay? So, just, I promise I would point out some things that I'm going along to the more general lessons. All right? So the thing we just saw was an example of what's called a dominance argument. A dominance argument says, if I think A, if I think, I don't use A because if I think P, then I should do X. And if I think not P, then I should do X. Therefore, I should do x. Dominance arguments are pretty straightforward, but people get them wrong. So if you do the same thing where the p or not p is true, then you should do that thing. If I had time, I'd give you examples of movies where they don't do it. You never mind. So fine, so Robert should step. And then James will go through the same argument. There'll still be a dominant argument, so he should step. And then Robert should step. We're going to go in fast motion for seconds. And this will be gone being true until we get to about here. So here they are, so we're going to get, not shoot, not shoot, not shoot, not shoot, not shoot, not shoot, not shoot, not shoot, not shoot, not shoot, not shoot, so let's see, 2, 1, 2, 1, 2, so here we are, finally at D star, all the way through this argument, including the last step, which was James's argument at d star plus one, the dominant argument said, no matter what I think I should step so I step. Now, however, we arrive at d star, and here's robot at d star, and robot thinking through the same reasoning. So here we are, we're in robot's head. This is a good head to be at. I've read some of this stuff. So imagine yourself in robot's head. And robot is putting himself in James's head, and I think it's true, and robot is saying, if I think that James is not going to shoot tomorrow, then I should use Fact A, and that tells me not to shoot today. But if I think that James is going to shoot tomorrow, then I should use Fact B, and this time, for the first time, when I walk my way through Fact B, it tells me I should shoot today, right? Because I'm at D star. So now, these two arguments are pulling in opposite directions. If I think the other guy isn't going to shoot, I should step. If I think the guy is going to shoot, then I should shoot. on stuck, I'm stuck. So it's easy up to now. We hadn't don't shoot, but now we're at D-Star. Now, if Game 3 could say nothing other than these dominant arguments, you probably shouldn't take my course. So it'd better be the case, I've got some way out of this dilemma. This is a dilemma, but I'll be way out of it. So here's how we're going to get out of this dilemma. We're going to figure out, we're in Robert's head. Echoe in there. Here we are, it's like a church. So in Robert's head, we're going to try and remember, this dilemma would be solved if Robert knew what James was going to do tomorrow. So we're going to work out what James is going to do tomorrow. But we're not going to do it as we suggested just now by Mr. Morse, by taking one step forward. We're going to take lots of step forward. In fact, we're going to go to the end of the game. So what's the end of the game? The last possible step in the game. So come forward, come forward. No one shoots, no one shoots, come on, come on, personal space, but a third of all. All right. So this is the end of the game. No one shoots, no one shoots, no one shoots. Eventually they're on top of each other, then noes is attaching. It's uncomfortable. All right, all right. OK, and here we are at the end of the game, and this turned out to be Robert's turn again. And so if Robert finds himself at distance 0 from James, if we get here, what should Robert do? Sorry, yeah, what do Robert do? He should shoot. Why should he shoot? Because he's going to hit with probability 1. So he should shoot, is that right? All right, so that was easy. So if we get to this stage, Robert's going to shoot. Let's go one stage back in time. I don't know if it was, it must have been his turn. Your turn now, so the previous turn must have been James's. So James is going to go back in time. So here we are one, now there are distance one apart. By the way, we had a shoot here, right? Now there are distance one apart, and it's James's turn. And now, what does James know that Robert's going to do tomorrow if James doesn't shoot? He knows, we just put it on the picture. He knows that Robert is going to shoot. And therefore, James should shoot. He should make that decision based on fact B. Is that right? James knows Robert's going to shoot tomorrow. So James should shoot if his probability of hitting now plus Robert's probability of hitting tomorrow is bigger than 1. And since Robert's probability on his own is 1, for sure, 1 plus something is bigger than 1. That was another second bit of math. They're light. OK, the two bits of math, and of course, so 1 plus something is bigger than 1. So he should shoot. Is that right? So James, you would shoot at this point, right? So now let's go back one more stage. So here we are, now we're at stage two away. All right. And now we're in Robert's head. And what is Robert now? What is Robert now? He'll shoot. He'll shoot. And therefore what should you do? Shoot, right? Because why should you shoot? Because you go through fact B, and you find the problem of the problem of the problem is it's bigger than one. So he should shoot. So now let's go back to another step. All right, and here we are at stage one, two, three. Here we are at stage three, which which is actually our D star minus one, here's James. This is what we were worried about, right? So what does James know at distance three? What have we just worked out? He knows that James knows that Robert's gonna shoot. And so James should use fact B, and using fact B, he should shoot, okay? So now, let's go back one more stage. And now we're back where our dilemma was. Now we're back at D star. I've worked my way back to D star, but what's different? Now when I arrive at D star from the end, remember last time I was at D star, I had a dilemma in Robert's head, because I didn't know whether James was gonna shoot or not. But now I do know what he's gonna do, what's he gonna do? And therefore what should you do? There we go. So we've just shown that at D star, Robert should shoot. In fact, what are we shown? We've shown until D star, nobody should shoot. But at D star, and if you get there in his stage afterwards, you should shoot. All right, so thank you to my two judges again. and sit down again. Thank you. You're even good to see you soon. Thank you. You expect them to be great actors and great interpreters of the law, so that's that's good. This is the law of game theory. All right, so what do we just show? Let's us make sure we understand what we just show. We showed that what I claim. We showed that no shot should occur until D star and that at D star, which of course depends Of course, depends on people's abilities, but at the start, whoever's turn that happens to be, should shoot. And we use two big ideas. I didn't point out the second one. So I forgot. So I'm going to do it now. The first big idea was this dominance idea. And the dominance idea was, if in circumstance p, you should do x. And if in circumstance not p, you should do x, then you should do x. All right, I'm saying it adamantly, because it seems office, right? And that was one big idea. And the other big idea was, when you get stuck in this thinking this way, a really good way to solve our game is to go to the end of the game and work backwards. It's good to anticipate what people are going to do. And the best way to do that is to go to the very end of the game and then work yourself back forward again. Now, that idea is called backward induction. Backward induction. And backward induction is the most important thing to learn if you take a game theory class. It's hard to do actually. It's hard to do because it's hard to make yourself do it. It's hard to have the instincts that I really should work backwards and not forwards. Time works forwards, right? Our logical way of thinking works forward. But when you're trying to play a game with somebody and trying to put yourself in other people's shoes or putting yourself in your shoes and to anticipate what they're gonna do or they're just thinking what you're gonna do, it's easier to work backwards. So backward induction combined with dominance tells us when we should shoot here. All right. So let's just go back to the beginning and just make sure we understand the game before we draw out any more general lessons. People are okay at this point. I don't really look like deer in the headlamps, which is a good science, I haven't lost too many of you. Is that right? Good, okay. So, yeah, yes, yes. It's because, if you look at this, in the qualities, it's monotone. So I'll show you after this, but basically, as you get closer, both people's probabilities are getting higher, so that pair of probabilities, you're always in a cross one out and replace it. One of them will survive, and they'll all get, we'll be crossed out with something bigger. So once you cross this inequality, you can't go back. It's a strictly monochrome sequence. That was a physicist that started the questions. I assume my answer isn't the appropriate language. All right, good. So what do we show? We showed that it isn't as simple as asking, should the better shot shoot first, or should the worst shot shoot first? And it isn't even a question of preemption and preempting preemption. It's a question of understanding both pro-losses, working the thing backwards, and finding out that there's a critical moment to shoot. Now, I'm only careful here. I'm not saying that that critical moment to shoot doesn't depend on abilities. It does depend on abilities. So it's very tempting to say, look, I've shown a critical point to shoot here, and this corresponds to when you see the whites and the other person's eyes. Not quite true, right? Because when you see the whites and other people's person's eye, it depends on your eyesight and when you should shoot, it depends on both your abilities. So I'm not saying there's a unique time to shoot, but I am saying it isn't a question of who the best shot is, it's a question of both abilities put together. Now let's throw in some dust. Let's make this harder. So we now all know that if you're playing this game, you should shoot a D-star if you knew everything you knew, and if you've taken the course. But you might say, that's fine. But it's fine if I'm reasoning, I'm playing this game against another person who's in the room who's taken the course. But what if I'm playing this game, you know, it's life and death. It's a new year in Lemsky. Neither of them took the game through classes. As far as I know, they didn't take the game through class. I'm looking around for a Russian school. I see a German school, but not a Russian school. So, but as far as I know, they haven't taken a game through class before the beginning of a new year, all right? So, anyway, think, what if I'm playing against somebody who's a little crazy, right? So what if I'm playing against a crazy person? I could be playing, I may have gone to Yale, but I could be playing it somebody who went to Harvard, right? Who never had a chance to take a decent game through class and you know, yeah. So how would it change our argument if I thought the other person was a little crazy? It's still a sum that we know each other's abilities. But now I suspect the other person just isn't capable of reasoning through in the way we just did. How does that change the argument? Would that make you shoot earlier? Would that make you shoot Blather? Would that make you think, good, good? So even if you're playing against a crazy person, even if you're not confident in the other person's rationality, or even not confident in the other person's confidence in your rationality, or any other statement of that form, which is often true in the real world. Even in that circumstance where you don't know you're playing against a sophisticated person, it doesn't change the argument. It doesn't change the argument in here. It doesn't change this argument. It doesn't change that argument because that argument was a dominant argument. That argument said, I don't care who I'm playing against, whether I'm playing against a Yale student or a Harvard student, I don't really care if the person's human. The person could be a ballard for a like-air, all I care about is whatever is going to happen I should not shoot, therefore I should not shoot. So in the first part of the argument, the dominance part of the argument, there was no interesting thought of the form, if the other guy is rational, if the other guy knows I'm rational, and it was just a dominant argument, it's incredibly robust argument. But in here, while we were doing the backward-induction argument, there I was thinking the other guy is rational, and I was kind of thinking that he can figure out that I'm rational, or that he can figure out that I can figure out that he's rational, or she, right? So it seems he and she make it easier. So in this piece of the argument, Robert at D star had to figure out what James was going to do at D star minus 1, and that argument required him to have confidence that James would figure out what Robert would do at D star minus 2, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. So not only did it require thinking the other person, putting myself in the other person's shoes and thinking they're rational, it required putting myself in the other person's shoes while they're putting themselves in my shoes, and they know that I'm rational and so and so forth. back with induction arguments is much more fragile to irrationality. So Laurie Sanders gave a talk yesterday about irrationality, which is incredibly important topic these days. It's possible that on Monday, they might give the Nobel Prize in Economics to Robert Schullo, which would be very nice, who's worked on such topics in finance. Irrationality here doesn't affect this part of the argument. It does affect this part. Now, nevertheless, the fact you should not shoot before here is a pretty strong argument, right? Because, frankly, by the time you've figured out the other guy's irrational, it's too late. But you don't really care if he shoots early here. You're probably happy if he shoots early here. All right? So this argument, this particular example, even though the other guy isn't rational, I shouldn't shoot before D-Star. Now let's push that idea further. I've played this game in class with undergraduates. I've played it in my business school class with business school students. I've played it with parents. I've played it with alumni. I've played it with deems and so I have some idea about how people do an average in this game. Now assuming that people are following the reasoning I just said and assuming that ability is distributed roughly randomly and also making this somewhat unreal assumption that people know each other's abilities, how often do I expect to see people hit on average? Well, D star could be the weaker person choosing, it could be the stronger person choosing if it's happening at D star, one is the sum is one. So on average, how many hits should I see? 50%, right? So in fact, a large enough sample, there's a bit of hand waving in that argument. It's almost going to point out that it's allowing me a little bit of hand waving, right, for the discreet versus continuous. Roughly speaking, 50% should hit. I see far fewer than 50%. Massively fewer than 50%. I would say I see 10% hits. Why? Why do I see 10% hits when we just agreed that even if everyone's crazy and irrational, no one should shoot between the 4D star and D star's telling us that half the shots should be hit? Why do I see such a low hit? People on internet and on site sponges, although that might make them shoot later. I mean, in some sense. Right, so I think there's two things going on. Let me take them in turns. Let's take things one first. So I think people do two things. They overestimate the opponent. They also overestimate their own abilities, right? So there's a well-known psychological bias that people overestimate their own ability to do something. They probably also overestimate the other person, but they certainly overestimate their own ability to do things. So there's an overconfident bias, and there's stacks of literature on the overconfident bias, right? So if you Google overconfidence and start reading papers, you can be there a long time, right? So it's pretty well established that people are overconfident in their abilities. Amateur golfers will try that shot, which they've seen Tiger Woods do where he slices it between the trees, right? And I don't play golf, but I'm told amateur golfers are never gonna hit that shot. All right, so I don't actually, I don't know the answer to that, Meg, it's possible. There probably is a literature on that, because almost all these things have been tried with gender in there. If I had to have a guess, I would say, men are more confident, but I don't know the data. So without seeing the data, I have the same suspicion you have. So one thing is overcome, and that's a well-known bias. I think there's another thing going on here, and I think it's going on specifically in America, and I think what's going on is another thing going on here. I think that at least in America, there is a thing I want to call the proactive bias. People like to be proactive. When you're kids in America, you are taught that being proactive is a good thing. I know this because I have kids. I have a 10-year-old and an eight-year-old, have a one-year-old too, but he hasn't got a school yet. At my 10-year-old and my eight-year-old, both of whom are girls, are being told being proactive is good. Seizing the bull by the horns is good. I also have more evidence about this, so just make it clear, being proactive would be throwing the sponge rather than letting things happen to you, right? So people think being proactive is good. You see this on sports center, for those people who watch sports center, you'll see these guys and the sweaty, usually it's guys, it could be actually, I don't want to be sexist about this, I think it's male or female, and there's such sweaty locker room afterwards and they make this statement and they say, it's great because we control our own destiny. And coming from England, controlling my own destiny just kind of sounds kind of scary to me. I have to say, if I wanted to control my own destiny, I wouldn't have got married. I didn't say that, I didn't say that. So I worry that this proactive bias causes people to throw the sponge too early. That taking the bull by the horns sounds like a good idea, but when you think about it, running away is an awfully much better idea, right? So if I have one last lesson for you, other than what are the takeaway lessons from today's talk? Such go through them. One is dominant arguments, the second is backward induction. Sometimes it's worth going to the end of the game and working backwards. And the third is this, and it's really just the Americans, because I think the Europeans and the Roman don't make this mistake, and that is this. The point is not to go down swinging. The point is not to go down. I'll leave it there. I'm done. I can take a few minutes questions, but I want to make sure you make it to the next talk. So, Hensheng. That's right. So, if it's Gandhi, you just wait and plunk it on his head. So, the question was, what if you're playing against Gandhi? Right? So, Gandhi's not going to shoot you because he's a saint, so if you're going to win the game and you are so inclined and Shankar's a sonata-gani guy, he just waiting plong to the sponge on his head. An image I'm now going to have where I go to bed tonight. Do I like the casino? I never go to a casino. Yeah, I don't really like it. I'm not a big casino player. I kind of like playing cards because, you know, I mean, Roulette Wheels seem a little bit too random to me, but I also worry a little bit about irration after the casino, so I had a student once who was studying behavior in not relab, but in 21, Blackjack, I think. And it turns out that people do exactly the wrong thing there. They, what do they do? They quit when they're behind, rather than quitting when they're ahead. And it turns out, since you use five packs, and it isn't around, I'm sorry, If you've been doing well, any sensible updating will say you're going to do worse in the future. If you're doing badly, you're going to do better. There's actually a regression to the mean. So people do exactly the wrong thing. I'm scared I would do the wrong thing too. And my wife would not like it. Yes. Yes. It's a good question. It's a very good question. So the question is, can we see games like this in nature? So let me as like a politician. Let me answer a slightly different question. So Game 3 is enormously used now in behavioural biology, so it's a major tool, and it turns out that there are wonderful connections between the Game 3 we developed in economics and notions of equilibrium in economics and notions of evolutionist ability in biology, and they're not exactly the same idea, but the one is kind of a subset of dealt. And what you can do when evolutionary biology, which is kind of cool, is if you know the basic form of a game that a particular species is playing, I'm careful because the actor is now rational, it's gene selection, but still. If you know the form of the game, you know the exact payoff of the game, you can actually look at the behavior, look at the behaviors you see in the population, and back out what the exact payoff must be, which is a lovely example of what's called identification economics, right? So, biologists do incredibly cool things with Game 3. Actually, at this point, they do cooler things than, frankly, economists do with Game 3. It's really cool. Now, this particular game, I don't know, with some biologists in the room, I'm looking at Tom. I don't know exactly what game this would cost one to in nature, but there are games that are a better example for nature is the Game Rock Paper Scissors. And the Rock Paper Scissors. So, Rock Paper Scissors, everyone know that Game rock paper, so rock beats scissors and scissors beats paper and paper beats rock that game, right? So rock paper scissors is a nice little zero-sum game that you can find examples of that look a lot like that in nature and you can twiddle them a little bit so not exactly rock paper scissors and they actually have no evolutionary stable point and you can show in example of that cycles occurring in populations of actually that most names example is tree lizards and meeting behavior of treatises, and you can show, you can predict out from those cycles what the exact payoff of the rock paper gap is this game they were playing was. So you can do really cool things in biology with this. But Tom knows more about that than I do, so I'm going to, I'm on dangerous territory. Tom, do you want to go on? Ah, how do I use Game Theory in my day-to-day work as a provost? Yeah, so it's a good question. So I do it a little bit, I think I've been doing this so long that it's kind of hard-wired for me to think this way. So I do tend to lay out things and kind of work them backwards. And I do tend to sort of try to go down one branch the tree at a time and see if they're all the same, if there's a dominant argument that I can see the hold of. But also, a large piece of Game Theory as applied to economics or to organizational behavior is the theory of incentives. And as you well know, Tom is the dean of the graduate school. He's a wonderful dean of the graduate school and he steers the graduates in a wonderful way. Some of that is about incentives. That's the Game Theory part. And some of it is about your relationship with the graduate student, which is more the psychology part. So I'd say Peter and I have the combined to have the skills, but Peter has the more important skill, probably. Ed. Yeah. Right. Good. So it's harder, but not impossible. So it's harder because now we'd have to think about the population of skill curves out there. And I want to be able to think of my opponent as being drawn, perhaps randomly drawn from some population of skill curves. And so I'm going to have some, I'm going to index each skill curve, and I'm going to take an expectation at every point in the game over those skill curves. So essentially, the reason I didn't do it here is I need to carry a whole bunch of integrals. And I'm taking distributions over curves, which is a messy thing to try and do. But basically, the basic idea is still the same. I'm going to be carrying some expectations around, Now, it isn't that I know the politics of this guy hitting tomorrow is, it's like I know only the expectation of that, I know with expectation what their property of hitting is if they were shooting tomorrow. So that means that the math is a little harder. But the basic idea of looking forward and working it out still runs through. I'm underselling the math a little bit because not only do I have to worry about the distribution of skills out there and worry about taking expectation over those skills. But that distribution is going to change as the game progresses. I'm going to be able to infer from the fact that the guy hasn't shot yet that he's not as skilled as I thought he might be. So that distribution, you think about some bell shaped distribution of skills, where these are the high skills and these are the low skills, some of those high skills are going to be able to conclude that they're not in the game as the game proceeds when I see the guy not shoot. So I have to be track of all that stuff I have to do busy updating on this distribution, to get some expectation and so on. But up to a lot of kind of math, nice math, but up to a lot of math, the basic reasoning still knows true. That's the sort of, so the reason I didn't do it here is you can kind of hear there's a lot more math involved, but it's going to be okay. Well, doesn't it change if it's a life or death game? That's, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, so, so, that's an interesting point. So, in this example, if there's just two monetary prizes, one for winning and one for losing, and the winning one is strictly better than the losing one. Then it actually doesn't change the strategy in this simple game, but that's too quick an answer. Imagine there's three outcomes. Imagine there's an outcome. So imagine the game is not being played, not exactly as we played it with sequential moves, but with simultaneous moves, right? So in each period people simultaneously have to decide whether to throw it out. So now a third outcome is in the game. Now, there's the outcome win, there's the outcome lose, and there's also the outcome both missed. Tire draw. Now, now, it's more complicated. Why is it more complicated? Because when there are three outcomes, we have to take into account things like risk aversion. Does it mean there's many money outcomes? Is there only two monetary outcomes or two outcomes? This analysis is fine. But as soon as we go from two to three, we have to start worrying about risk aversion and things like it, again, kind of in David's territory. we have to do a little bit of what David does for a living to solve this place, but it's a great question. Yeah. I should permit this to the last question, as you will have other talks to go to, but I agree with that. Of course, this is applied to biology. We're talking to a sociologist now, as you can hear. I agree with that. So by the way, today was high church because, well, look around you, so what are we thinking? So what we're doing in mathematics economics or the more mathy end of the social sciences is trying to tease out our intuitions and trying to tease out how different assumptions lead to different conclusions. We are not, and perhaps you're right, we are not trying to say this is a tight prediction of what's going to happen. Some things will be pretty robust, this argument about dominance is pretty robust. But most arguments are not that robust. And one of the things we have to do in most areas of theoretical economics, but the same is true in theoretical areas of sociology, is we need to tease out exactly what are the assumptions that we're making, and would these results be robust to changing them? So the great thing that, and this is not the most inspiring things I'll end on, I'll end on it despite that, the great thing about doing mathematical social sciences, which I guess is what I've done in my career, is it allows you to think through a kind of thought experiment rather than experiment. says, I can't really, so I'll be having some discussion, let's say with my wife who's an English professor. And she'll say, yes, but you've assumed this, this, and this. And it allows me to say, OK, you're right. All those, I did assume this, this, and this, A, B, and C. But look, the argument still works if I drop assumption A. The argument switches exactly at this point if I drop assumption B. And if I drop assumption C, yeah, you're right, the whole thing's completely nonsense. That's a great conversation for scientists and humanists, or in this case, social scientists and humanists to be having. It shouldn't be a hostile discussion. It's a discussion about focusing in on the details of an argument. It's a great Yale scholarly thing to be doing. And Martin Shubik did it much better than I ever will. He's a Yale professor. One of the founders of Game Theory, there are many people on Yale doing things better better at that than I will. But you have a chance to see some more of them later on this afternoon. Thank you for coming. and we'll see you later on in something. Thank you.
