Timestamp: 2026-05-08T06:27:54.429208
Title: Rohit - This guy literally shows the easiest way to print with YouTube Shorts... 2008885951112585216
URL: https://x.com/HeyRohhit/status/2052002110729056537?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 54:33

Description:
这份分析报告将对提供的视频文本进行深度拆解，分为“作者蓝图”、“硬核批判”和“逻辑架构图”三个部分。

---

### 第一部分：作者蓝图 (Author's Map)

**1. 核心主张 (Core Thesis)**
YouTube Shorts 是当前门槛最低且收益最高的在线赚钱方式。任何人（无论背景或智力水平）都可以通过“分析爆款生态—利用AI低成本复刻—标准化外包”这一闭环路径，将短视频转化为稳定的被动收入资产。

**2. 论据基础 (Evidentiary Base)**
*   **个人实操数据：** 声称新频道首日获利265美元，12月实现每日数百美元的稳定收入。
*   **学生案例（社交证明）：** 提及“Earn It Media”社区，声称帮助百余名学生实现月入1万至10万美元，并展示了截图。
*   **竞品拆解（案例研究）：** 实时演示了对 "Kess talks" 等频道的分析，通过 VidIQ 插件展示其播放量和爆款（Outliers）规律。
*   **工具链演示：** 具体展示了 Gemini（选题）、11 Labs（配音）、DaVinci Resolve（剪辑）、Captions（字幕）的操作流程。

**3. 逻辑授权 (Logical Warrant)**
其逻辑基于**“爆款可复制性”**归纳法：如果一个视频在特定生态中成为“离群值”（播放量远超均值），说明该内容结构已被算法验证。通过“带风格的模仿”（Copy with Style），创作者可以利用验证过的结构加上微创新，极高概率触发算法推荐。

**4. 声明范围 (Stated Scope)**
*   **适用人群：** 明确声明即便“全职工作、低IQ或身体/心理挑战者”均可参与。
*   **成本边界：** 声称“零前期资本投入”，风险仅为编辑视频的时间成本。
*   **成功指标：** 瞄准 90 天内 1000 万次播放的获利门槛。

**5. 隐含对手 (Implicit Opponent)**
*   **传统就业观：** 认为赚钱必须靠高学历或体力劳动。
*   **原创至上主义：** 认为内容创作必须从零开始、靠天才灵感，而非数据驱动的工业化拆解。
*   **重资产创业：** 认为开公司赚钱必须有大量启动资金。

**6. 预期产出 (Intended Takeaway)**
读者应立即建立频道，模仿演示的“舞蹈趋势”或类似低门槛领域，保持每日更新，并在遇到瓶颈或寻求规模化时，加入作者的付费导师计划（Earn It Media）。

---

### 第二部分：硬核批判性审查 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review)

**1. 强化版论点 (Steelman)**
该方案的核心价值在于**“去中心化的内容工业化”**。它通过 AI 工具极大地降低了生产力成本，并利用数据分析工具（VidIQ等）将极具随机性的“流量运气”转化为可计算的“概率实验”。在短视频算法红利期，这种“数据驱动+AI生产”的模式确实是普通人突破阶层固化的潜在通道。

**2. 最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)**
> “You don't need to put any capital up front.” (你不需要投入任何前期资金。)

**批判：** 这是误导性的。视频随后提到的 11 Labs（高级配音）、DaVinci Studio（专业剪辑版）、Captions App（付费订阅）以及 VidIQ 均有显著成本。更关键的是，作者最终推销的“导师计划”才是最高昂的隐形成本。此外，其“零门槛”论调忽略了**审美门槛**和**数据敏感度**——并非所有人都能准确识别“Outliers”或“Add a spin”。

**3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)**
*   **幸存者偏差：** 展示了 100 个成功学生，但未披露该计划的总参与人数。如果分母是 1 万人，成功率仅为 1%。
*   **数据时效性：** 演示的“舞蹈趋势”极易饱和。当数千人看到此视频并涌入同一赛道时，RPM（千次展示收益）会因广告竞争和内容重复而骤降。
*   **合规性风险：** 视频中直接下载他人 TikTok 视频进行二创，在 YouTube 政策中属于“重复内容”（Reused Content）的灰色地带，随时面临频道被封禁或无法通过获利审核的风险。

**4. 隐藏前提 (Hidden Premises)**
*   **算法稳定性假设：** 假设 YouTube 会持续奖励这种“半原创”的 AI 合成内容。
*   **全球化套利假设：** 假设所有地区的创作者都能顺利解决美区账号、AdSense 结汇等技术性壁垒。

**5. 盲区分析 (The Blind Side)**
*   **心理损耗：** 提到的“零播放监狱”（Zero View Jail）对新手心理打击巨大，作者将其轻描淡写为“换个号再来”，忽略了普通人面对连续失败时的挫败感和时间沉没成本。
*   **版权雷区：** 这种“外包/搬运/微调”模式在法律和平台道德准则上处于弱势，缺乏长期的品牌护城河。

**6. 致命一击 (One Hit Kill)**
如果这套“外包+AI”的系统真的如此“ cracked”（无敌）且能稳定日入数百美元，作者最理性的商业决策应该是**保持低调并横向开设 1000 个矩阵频道**，而不是花费大量精力制作精美视频去招揽潜在的竞争对手来瓜分流量。

**7. 判定标准 (What Would Settle It)**
需要一份为期 6 个月的第三方审计报告，追踪 500 名随机抽取的、无基础的学员，统计其投入产出比（ROI）以及频道的存活率（非封禁率）。

---

### 第三部分：逻辑架构图

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    %% 核心盈利逻辑
    Main["🚀 YouTube Shorts 盈利模型: 数据驱动法"]:::mainClaim --> Niche["第一阶段: 寻找爆款利基 (Niche)"];
    Main --> Creation["第二阶段: 工业化内容生产"];
    Main --> Scale["第三阶段: 规模化与外包"];

    subgraph SG1["🔍 寻找爆款 (The Outlier Method)"]
        direction TB
        N1["使用 VidIQ 分析竞品"]
        N2["识别离群值 (Outliers): <br/>播放量远超均值的视频"]
        N3["分析共性: 动作/悬念/视觉冲击"]
        N4["饱和度检查: 搜索标题看竞争人数"]
        N1 --> N2 --> N3 --> N4
    end
    Niche --> SG1

    subgraph SG2["🤖 AI 驱动生产 (The Content Stack)"]
        direction TB
        C1["Gemini/ChatGPT: 脚本重写 & 趋势发现"]
        C2["11 Labs: 美式英语 AI 配音 (高RPM保证)"]
        C3["DaVinci Resolve: 视觉加工 <br/>(红圈/箭头/动态缩放)"]
        C4["Captions App: 动态高亮字幕"]
        C1 --> C2 --> C3 --> C4
    end
    Creation --> SG2

    subgraph SG3["📈 策略与避坑 (The Strategy)"]
        direction TB
        S1["一致性: 每日更新"]
        S2["突破 '零播放监狱': <br/>冷启动/养号/换号策略"]
        S3["数据监控: 80% 点击率 & 100%+ 完播率"]
        S4["获利门槛: 90天/10M 播放"]
        S1 --> S2 --> S3 --> S4
    end
    Scale --> SG3

    subgraph SG4["⚠️ 批判性审视 (Critical Review)"]
        direction TB
        R1["<b>致命伤:</b> 商业动机悖论<br/>(好生意为何要教给竞争对手?)"]
        R2["<b>风险点:</b> YouTube 政策打压再利用内容"]
        R3["<b>隐形成本:</b> 付费软件 + 导师课 + 审美门槛"]
        R4["<b>幸存者偏差:</b> 忽略了 99% 的失败分母"]
    end

    %% 连接批判
    SG1 -.-> R4
    SG2 -.-> R3
    SG3 -.-> R2
    Main -.-> R1

    %% 样式定义
    classDef mainClaim fill:#f96,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px,color:#fff,font-weight:bold;
    classDef stageNode fill:#e1f5fe,stroke:#01579b,stroke-width:2px,color:#01579b;
    classDef reviewNode fill:#ffcdd2,stroke:#b71c1c,stroke-width:2px,color:#b71c1c,font-weight:bold;

    class Main mainClaim;
    class N1,N2,N3,N4,C1,C2,C3,C4,S1,S2,S3,S4 stageNode;
    class R1,R2,R3,R4 reviewNode;

    style SG1 fill:#fff3e0,stroke:#ff9800,stroke-width:2px;
    style SG2 fill:#e8f5e9,stroke:#4caf50,stroke-width:2px;
    style SG3 fill:#e3f2fd,stroke:#2196f3,stroke-width:2px;
    style SG4 fill:#ffebee,stroke:#f44336,stroke-width:2px;
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
YouTube shorts are one of the most cracked ways to make money online right now. Check this out. This is a channel that I started a few months ago. It got monetized a month ago, first day, $265. Go to December, which is the full first monetized month. And we're cracking hundreds per day, fairly consistent. All of this is outsourced. I've got editors that make the videos. And I can tell you something right now. I don't care if you're fat, mentally challenged or got a low IQ or you work a full-time job. you can do this too. The beauty of this is we're posting 30 second clips online, you don't need to put any capital up front. The only real risk is the time that you're gonna spend editing videos. All you need to know in order to get these types of results is how to find a banger niche, how to make a viral video, and how to scale it up. And I'm gonna teach you all three things in this video. Now you may be thinking, why am I qualified to talk about this? Well of course here's a channel example that I'm showing right now, but I've been doing this for three years. I've generated six figures with just shorts channels, I've sold multiple of them, and I also run the number one YouTube Shorts Mentalship program called Earn It Media, where I've helped over a hundred students get monetized, get insane results like 10k mums, 100k mums, I'm going to show like a bunch of results on the screen right now. It's a great community full of killers, we even had a meet up this year, but I'm not going to waste your time. I'm going to cover the most important lessons. In fact, everything you need to know in order to go viral and run this up and potentially turn this into a full-time gig. Now the first step to creating a viral short channel is finding a bank in Asia, okay? So we need something that's got a high idea or clip sealing, something that has a lot of use, ideally consistent and low saturation. So I'm going to show you exactly how to do that. So what we're going to do is go over to YouTube here, click on shorts, I'm not logged in, what I'm going to do is basically just scroll until I find something promising, ideally something with a voiceover because an English voiceover means higher RPM and a guaranteed monetization as well. I'm also looking for something that's relatively low effort so we can improve it a lot. Okay so this has a voiceover so what I'm gonna do is I'm just gonna create a tab on this channel and I'm gonna do this for a few channels so we don't just get stuck with the first thing we see. This is good but it's pretty high effort. I'm gonna teach you something a bit lower effort for now but if you're advanced this is something that could appeal to you. Okay we've got another one here so I'm just gonna create these three like create separate tabs for them. Now what I'm gonna be looking for is basically how many like viral videos they're getting, how consistently, how good is the niche that they're doing and maybe their channel is bad, maybe they're not getting the most consistent views, maybe they're not doing the best but if If we see outliers that are a lot different from the other videos that they post, we can subniche into that and make a whole channel around the best performing videos. So if we look here, Kess talks, we're looking for outliers. So this would be an outlier, but I'm looking for something viral. There we go. 6.5mm, 3.5mm, 7.1mm, okay, we've got some really good outliers there. This couple tried the running trend. And this was uploaded recently as well. You want to be looking for recent outliers. You don't want to be looking at something that went viral a year ago, because that might not be what works right now. And this is only two weeks ago, which is brilliant. This couple tried the one. Same with this. This couple. Same with this. Okay, so the common pattern here is, I mean, let's just watch the video. Where you float in the air and. Weird looking introduction, where it's some type of trend, I guess, where people are just running in mid-air. This couple tried the running trend where you float in the air and keep running. And while most people thought they completed the trend, the last girl showed exactly how to do it and the method will shock you. Okay, a method on how to execute trends. That's basically the niche that we're seeing here. Yeah, with some like CTA at the end as well. This is very easy to make. I mean, let's just see if this is a format that he does for every single video or she. Water to TikTok trend. Where you risk up your partner and water comes out. This couple tried. Okay. So... Okay, I get the point. I get the point. Let's check the sharky tunes guy out. He's got a few outliers. Yeah, now this channel isn't doing as well in terms of very viral videos. This one is doing a lot better. I'm not even gonna really look at that. DG shorts. Okay. So we've got dances here, which are going very viral. It seems like these two channels we found here are kind of similar because I assume that these dances are trends as well. Do you like the Don't Hide or Lush Life 2015 song better? First, the Don't Mind song. Yeah, I mean, these are like trendy dances too. Do you like the remix or original version of this Christmas song better? First, the original version? Okay, so this is basically comparing... Okay, so comparing dance trends... This guy's editing has a lot better. It's similar to a channel called Music Media actually, but it's not really needed. I mean, if we see here, this guy's doing pretty good views on his outliers, but not very consistently. Let's check out some of the bad videos as well because maybe Maybe there is something wrong with them, maybe something that isn't used in the outliers. Okay, no, it's this video, it's a Y question, it's not how. In his most viral videos, it was how to do the dance, and this is explaining like about some streamer, which is not really what we're interested in. We don't care about eating, we want to know how it's done. Okay. So we can see here clearly that his outliers are different. If we just look one more time. This couple tried the impossible one knee challenge where you use a TikTok audio and try to complete all of them. Yeah, so they're trying something impossible. It's not like this couple tried the water TikTok trend. Where you risk up your partner and water comes out. And although most people did the trend normally. What the last couple did made them go. Okay, yeah, so we see a different structure here in these videos. This couple tried the running trend where you float in the air. So this one is a how-to. This one is like, wait until the end, because one couple did it completely wrong, I guess, which is different from his bad video. So we can work with that. We can work with that, okay. I guess this is just like a quick summary. If I was you, I'd probably spend like a good hour or two doing this. Look through multiple channels, look through common patterns. I've just landed on something pretty good here, pretty quick, but I would explore eruptions further, but this, to me, is it's a pretty good, good to go. What you can also do, you can download the vidIQ extension, I'll put a link in the description, actually, because it is quite good, it's a free extension and you can see here how many views they've done in the last 30 days. Ideally, you always wanna look for something that's done above 50 million with consistent upload schedule. Yes, so he's done 22 videos and 28 mil views. Kestorx has done 77 and 25. So this right now is looking like the better option. So now we have the niche that I guess got as interested though the one that we think we want to pursue. But now what you wanna do is kind of like a saturation checker, right? Because although this guy's doing well, there might be a lot more people doing this as well. So what we're gonna do is let's just have a quick look at some of his videos if we type in. Okay, so he hasn't got anything in the description. Sometimes I look for hashtags, but another thing that you can do is just copy the title here and then paste it in. And then if we filter to shorts, we can see if more people are posting it. Okay, so we've got Kanye West floating, we've got Floating Train goes viral. This is a different channel, Floating Train goes viral. So there are a few people posting this type of content, not that many though, which is good. And this video did fairly well. Kanye West floating, his channel isn't dedicated dancing now make sure let's see this this is also a dance type of channel or is it now this one's kind of moved on okay so Zuki shorts okay trends trends okay this guy's doing trends as well and he's also doing well and recently too so this is further confirmation this is really good because the last thing you want to see is a lot of channels post in the same type of quality content and it's the same type of topics but either some are not performing anywhere near as well despite having the same quality as the most viral channels or it's just a pool of basically bad performers. So I'll see you in this just right now we've had a look, we've had a little saturation check and the channels that we see that are dedicated to this niche are both doing really well. This is a great indicator to basically start a channel in this niche. So what we're going to do next is now it's I guess video creation time. Now we've got the niche so now you need to make a channel to make a channel click sign in and create a Gmail account. Once you've got a channel what you want to do is before you start posting or doing any branding and stuff like that just warm it up for a couple of days watch some videos be like a normal YouTube user. If you have a YouTube channel that maybe you haven't posted on but you've just watched YouTube on for years use that that is amazing. Once you've done that, we need to move on to the branding, which people spend way too much time on. So nowadays we have AI. There is no point making this yourself. I really would not spend longer than like 10 minutes on this. We're going to be doing the dance niche, so I guess we can just type into Gemini, create me a profile. And now we wait. If we don't like it, then we'll just ask it to change some things. Okay, so that looks pretty game. So I'm going to tell the AI to change it. Okay, so we've We've got this, I think it looks pretty cool, pretty feminine, but it will do the job. So now you just want to take that, you want to upload it as a profile picture. And now if you want to make a banner, you can basically do the same thing, just prompt it until you're happy. And instead for a banner, you can ask this, make sure the size is boom. Two, five, 60 by 14, 40 pixels. Let's see what it cooks. Okay, so it didn't listen to me. Now I can do this sometimes. It's almost like being a special ed teacher. Sometimes you need to talk a lot to it and really reiterate your point, which is fine. So what we're gonna do is go to YouTube banner on images and what we're gonna do is basically feed this image in hopes that this will work. I'll just copy and paste it in. Fill in the middle dark rectangle with purple color. and dancers on it, like the image above. Do not have any text as this will be used as my banner. Okay, that's the prompt and we will see again, what it cooks. Okay, well, that's not the answer that I was expecting. Plan B. So I posted the same prompt into chat GPT and the image is actually pretty cool. It's not really in a banner format, although you can still use this and just basically use this box, which I think would be very good. If you really wanna alternate it, then I guess you can like crop it out and stuff like that and maybe adjust it in apps like Canva, but seriously don't overthink the whole branding process. It's not as important as you think. You've got the profile picture now, you've got the banner. I guess now we've got to create the names. I'll also show you how to do that using AI. What you can ask it if you lack any ounce of creativity, which a lot of us do. What we can do is type in, I am making a YouTube channel about people doing trendy dance moves, please generate me a list of 20 and original and related to my niche. At this point, I can do like everything for you, so I'll just ask it these questions And here it's going to generate a list of some pretty corny user names and channel names, but mate, you can just filter through, you can put together some different words if you really want to vibe steps, pretty fire, trend groove, I don't know about that. Move wave, bounce lab. I kind of like that to be fair, bounce lab. I know what you need to do now is on your profile, you've got the profile picture, you've got the banner, you can crop out the section that you really want, and now all you need to do is change the at handle to the channel name that suit shoe. Right now let's move on to the most important part which is actually making the videos. So with our competitor it was pretty clear the videos that were performing the best. It was this like how to do the trend and the trends going wrong. So first thing we're going to do is again we're going to use AI but first I just want to see what type of trends we're working with here. 6.5 ml is the recent one. One knee challenge goes a vibe room. Let's just see this one again. Okay so what we're gonna do is we're gonna go into Gemini and I'm gonna paste this link in and essentially tell it to tell me more ideas like this more dance trends like this that I can make videos on. I'm going to paste in the link in just a second. What I'm going to say is I am making YouTube shorts. Always give it like all the context just so it knows. AI is only as good as you prompt it. That's another thing you got to remember. It's not just going to give you all the information. You've got to be fairly detailed with what you want. You probably saw that in the banner example earlier. You've got to be you've got to tell it what's wrong. You've got to tell it everything, right? So that's just like a quick draft of a potential prompt that could work quite well. We will see what Gemini comes up with. So here we go. We've got Slickback. I do remember that one actually. The Water Dance. We've got the Orange Justice. I remember these are like Fortnite dances. The Renegade. Yeah, that's a classic. That's an old one. The Invisible box step. That's a good one actually. I remember that the shirt ball pull muscle flex transitions not a dance. Now we want dances. Give me a list of the most recent viral trends, ideally very new ones so I can be the first post them. Another thing that you can do actually is go on TikTok and while Gemini comes up with some ideas for us to do, you can type in hashtag dance trend and see what's popping up recently, like three days ago. Look for videos that were posted pretty recently and have a lot of likes. Things we don't want ones that look like very easy to do. Let me check something. Yeah, you see the reason why these videos are going viral too is because it's something you rarely see. This couple tried the running trend. Like it doesn't really make sense how how they're doing it. So doing videos where like people are just dancing, it ain't good enough. Like we need there to be something special, we need there to be something like how, like how are they doing this? That type of question is what's making these videos go viral. So that's another thing that we need to include in the prompt. Now we wait. Okay, so we still got that slick back, the invisible box, except the robot isolation glitch, the owl trend. Okay, we might be on to something. Let's have a look at this. Yeah, like this makes you think how are they doing this, but I guess the common sense answer is that like his legs are right behind him. Okay, we've got a little idea there. We've got a little idea. Oh, this has got a lot of likes as well. You see what I'm saying? This is the type of shit that we need. But what am I looking at right now? Okay, the owl trend is good mate. Okay, well we're cooking, we're cooking. I hope you understand here, you need to analyze the common patterns in your competitors' videos. Here we identify that the reason why they're going viral is probably because you don't really know how they're doing it. So there's like a curiosity aspect in still there in the video, which keeps you watching. That's what we identified. We've used AI to generate a video idea that is similar to that, that has that same element of curiosity. So now we can basically take the same video structure but apply our own spin. It's no good just seeing these channels and being like, right, okay, I'm gonna copy his video exactly because that's not really how you're gonna go viral, that is not how you're gonna dominate niches, that's not how you're gonna be number one. The guys who really make this a real income, they don't just copy, they copy with style, okay? They copy and they add a spin. They always add something themselves, whether it's improving the content, or just trying something new with it. Trying a different idea, trying a different trend, This is what we're going to be doing right now. So if we look at this video as well, we've got to see how many clips are being used here and the type of pacing. Again, we're analyzing, we're trying to see the common patterns. This couple trends. He uses a fast red arrow at the start. The running trend, where you float in the air. He uses popping sub titles, two clips, and keep running. Little red arrow. And while most people thought they completed the trend, the last girl showed exactly how to do it and the method will shock you. Okay, so it's the last person showed you something. And in this example, he shows multiple videos of people basically doing this trend. And he cuts straight to the clip where it's the person doing it. Okay, so we kind of get the point with how he's doing the videos here. It's a very simple structure. So now I guess we can just make our own. So first things first is we're gonna go on TikTok and we're gonna go on YouTube. I'm gonna type in the owl trend and just try and get a bunch of these like really good clips. But first it would actually probably be better find one that exposes the trend so we don't waste any time I guess on a potential flop. So here I'm just going to type in how to do our trend into TikTok. We can paste the same into YouTube if we don't find one here. Okay that's good because that exposes it basically and this guy actually had a viral clip earlier on so we can pair that in with the video very nicely. So now we just need to download these videos so we're going to go to save TT save TikTok. This is like the best video download when it comes to TikTok videos, in my opinion. And what we're gonna do, since this one has like a big caption in the middle, I can't really be bothered removing that, we're gonna get this one that exposes the trick and we're just gonna save a bunch of these videos now. Okay, so now we've got the clips, now we've got to write the script. Now this could not be easier because we already have the competitor, we already know the viral script structure that is working for the guy. So what we're gonna do is we're gonna take it and essentially add our own spin like we we did with the clip. Okay, so what you can do to easily copy the script is just copy the YouTube URL, go to youtubetutorstranscript.com, paste it in, get free transcript, it will make sure you are a human, which I am. And yeah, there we go. You get a lot of like bullshit pop-ups. And then here you have it. The, yeah, it's very simple, which is click, copy, like you can press Ctrl C, Ctrl V. And I'm gonna go straight to 11 labs, which is where we're gonna make the voice over for this. So 11 Labs is a great website. It's an AI website that basically generates AI voice over. It can sound very realistic and yeah, it's easy. It kind of outsources you from the process. So what we're gonna do here, we're gonna write our script inside of here and then we're gonna generate it line by line. I'm gonna show you exactly how to do that. So we're just gonna divide it sentence by sentence to make it easy. And our video is about the owl trend. So here he has this couple try the running trend where you flow in the air and keep running. So we just need to change this to our trend. So this couple try the hour trend, where you, so this couple try the hour trend, where your legs disappear and your partner holds you. And while most people thought they completed the trend, the last guy showed exactly how to do it. We're gonna show the guy like falling over and the method will shock you. Did he have the method will shock you? I can't remember that one second. where you float in the air and keep running. And while most people thought they completed the trend, the last girl showed exactly how to do it and the method will shock you. All right, perfect, yeah. So we know what to do there. We go here and the method will shock you. We're not gonna have no call to action at the end like that guy did. Now it's about fighting a voice. So he used like an American man's voice. American man is usually the best route to go for most niches. You wanna have the American accent to drive in that US audience, which usually correlates to a higher RPM, which means you make more per thousand views that your short generates. Now, in order to find these voices, what you can do, once you're on 11 labs, go to voices, you're gonna be in the library, and what you can do is set filters, choose languages, go to English, let me just find English, choose accent American. Then you wanna go to like, conversational, social media, usually best high quality male young is good apply filters and then it will come with like a whole list of really good voices that you can use and if you click on them you will hear like a sample I guess so right now we're looking for something that's not too monotone has a good strong American accent and yeah I guess is quite lively. Okay, we're going to try braiding out. So we're going to add into my voices, add to voices. And now what we want to do is we want to select braiding here in the voice section. And we're going to generate this sentence by sentence. A lot of people like to generate the full script at once, but usually that's not a good idea because somewhere it might mess up the pronunciation and expression, which has to lead to you regenerating the whole thing again, which just burns through credits. So we're going to do it line by line to make sure I can teach you how to get the right pronunciation as well and what we're looking for. So before I actually generate it a lot of the time I just like to say to myself how I would like it to be said. So here we've got this couple track again. So you want to say this couple tried the owl trend where your legs disappear and your partner hold you. That's how we want it to sound. So now I'm just looking for something that basically matches the way I said it. This couple tried the owl trend where your legs disappear in your partner holds you. It's too soft. Regenerate. This couple try the owl trend where your legs disappear. Regenerate. This couple try the owl trend where your legs disappear. The owl. It's not pronounced right. You see you got to be making these like regenerations constantly. This is the kind of frustrating part. If you don't land on a really good voice, you may have to do a lot of regenerations. This couple try the owl trend where your legs disappear here and your partner holds you. Okay, that's good, we can save that. And these two are gonna generate at the same time because we want them to flow into each other. Just because the last sentence is very short. And while most people thought they completed the trend, the last guy showed exactly how to do it. And the method will shock you. He said that really well at the first sentence, but the last one wasn't good. So we're gonna download this and we're gonna regenerate the last sentence on its own. And the method will shock you. and the method will shank you. And the method will shank you. It's going on there. Right, these AI's tweak a bit, man, I don't know what Braden's doing there, bro. Listen to this. All right, I want to regenerate that one. We can't be letting that into the short. And the met. Whoa, Braden, bro, what the fuck? Okay, if the AI starts tweaking like this, mess around with some of the settings, okay, I'm gonna mess around with the stability a little bit, the similarity, the style exaggeration, hopefully he fixes. There we go, he's fixed up there. Okay, so now we have the voiceover and we have the clips. Now it's time to edit the actual video. So I'm gonna edit the video inside of DaVinci Resolve as that is my preferred editing software. I started off on CapCut. Well, we've shorted anyway and I was back in the movie maker days when I started making videos, but this is my favorite software. I've got the studio version, but I'm not gonna use any of the studio features, which means I'm gonna treat it as if it's the free software. so you can basically do exactly what I'm doing. CapCut, I'd say, is the most big in a friendly, but they do charge for like so many features now, which is pretty silly. So yeah, let's get into it. So first things first is we're gonna put the voice over into the editing software. Now this isn't gonna be like a very in-depth editing tutorial, like click this button, click that button. If you wanna do that, bro, just type that in on YouTube. DaVinci Resolve editing tutorial, you'll get guys that make like three hour long videos on every button that you should click. That is what you should watch for that. I'm teaching you how to make viral shorts, okay? So we're gonna put in the voiceovers first. Now I will teach you some source. I like to use keyboard shortcuts just to speed up everything because efficiency is crucial. So what I'm gonna do is click S here and click one to ripple cut, which essentially takes out the split and deletes the part I want missing, but then it pairs everything together. I'll just show you a quick example. So if I did it in the middle and I pressed one, it glues together, saves me having to like, oh, delete, then drag. That time adds up and that time is valuable because maybe you've come back from work, maybe you've got kids, maybe you've got a wife to please, you need to get these videos out fast and make some money. So here we're gonna basically play the voice over and wait until we hear some gaps. So there's a gap, boom, keep it compact, split and one. Now, what I like to do is always listen again to the voice over that you've generated. I think he still kind of says the sentence quite fast. Yeah, I think it's just that last line that we need to regenerate. So we're going to go back into 11 labs. they completed the trend the last guys showed exactly how to do it boom that's good feel like there's a bit of a gap there so we're gonna cool yeah try the our trend where your legs disappear and your partner holds you and while most people thought they completed the trend the last guys showed exactly how to do it and the method will shock you okay perfect so now we have the scripts and voiceover ready now it's just about getting the videos in and basically editing it in the same way so the most important thing with a hook is that it's something that would be visually engaging and engaging overall even if the video was on mute. So it has to be something that instantly catches your eye. In the previous example, in the outlier that we kind of got this whole concept from, it was like a person getting basically hung by their hat and they were like running mid-air. So of course that's going to grab your attention so we need something similar, maybe a bit of movement, maybe a bit of laughter, just something that catches your eye. And the trend already does that which is good. But I think this clip is going to be best because there is a lot of people involved and it's pretty interesting but since we say couple there's three people there now that could work but okay we'll try this because these actually look like a couple. I'm going to cut to the part where he's raising his hand and touching a hair. I'm going to quickly look at the outlier video that we get an inspiration from as as well, just to kind of see how they structured it all. This couple tried the running trend where you float in the air and keep running. Right, so they have another part for end. So if you go back... This couple tried the hour trend where your legs disappear and you're just here to get there. So here we can do that as well. The light basically caught it. Where your legs disappear and your partner holds you. But we couldn't even put another one. We have more than enough to work with the film. And while most people thought they completed the trend, the lap. Well, most people thought they completed the trend. This guy like uses two clips in one sentence, but it's the same clip is just two different cuts of it. We've got more than enough content to work with, so we can switch it up a bit more. And while most people... Oh, this is actually more hook worthy. Yeah, prefer this. We want the most visually engaging clip in the beginning. Here, the last guy, because this is the person that we're gonna use at the end as well, so it's worth putting him in here. And then we'll just put these to end with... Okay, let's see if they do anything else in this video. They both move. That's good. The more movement, the better. You always want your videos to be as visually engaged and as possible. Boom. And now we just want to play this video and play this from the start when he gets his legs up. Let's see how long the ally does it from. Okay, right, I see. And that's a good ending. This is quite a short video. Usually with shorts I would recommend doing around 20 seconds plus. But with this niche, I mean it seems as it's not necessary. This video is about 16 seconds long and it did really well. So we can do it around a similar length. What I do always recommend, like I mentioned earlier, is study your competitors. Do exactly what they're doing, just add your own spin. It's super important that you do that. Now, with this video, what we need to do now is we need to add music, we need to add captions. This couple tried the impossible one. Well, I've noticed here is that he's using the same music for each video. Before I was out, yeah. Sure. This couple tried the impossible one each. Well, you can hear at the start. This couple tried the water TikTok trend. You hear that? So what we want to do is basically take the same song just in this example. this couple tried yeah here you can hear it loud so what we want to do is just basically shazam it i'm gonna use my phone for this pull up shazam on the phone i'm just gonna play this not cue anymore by illit so we're gonna type that in and if that's the song we're gonna download it and use it in our video so it sounds like a sped up version of this song so what we're gonna do is just sped up yeah there we go we got it okay so now we just need to download this I have a 4K video downloader extension as well which you can download and unfortunately it doesn't do mp3 for some reason but I'm just going to get the mp4 and I'm going to delete the video layer okay so now we got the song that's the beat drop that he uses we want the beat drop as they're like falling and smiling yeah that's good of course we're not going to have it that like volume the whole way through so what we're going to do is lower it so it doesn't clash but then here what we're going to do is we're going to get in the inspector we're going to click a keyframe so the volume goes up around here to a pretty normal level that'll be good we're gonna make that faster actually okay and since there's like these subtitles at the start we're gonna cut that up a little bit right and then we end the video there this couple tried the hour trend where your legs disappear in your apartment. And while most people thought they completed the trend, the last guy showed exactly how to do it and the method will show up. Right, and on the beat drop to make it hit a bit harder. All right, wanting to fall in there. What we're going to do is also zoom this in. Well, that's good. And what we want to do is add an adjustment layer. So you're going to affect adjustment clip. And we want to just add some zooms, right? So we're going to add a little zoom to this adjustment layer. Just a nice gradual one. Nothing crazy. Boom. So there's like a slow zoom. I'm going to apply that to every single clip, just control C, control V. Copy and paste all of that the whole way through. Okay. All the way through. This one's a bit longer. So what we can do here is go to the keyframe. And sorry, yeah, go from there, go until the end, zoom in, boom, hang short and bang, short and bang, do do do do, stuck in my head, right? This couple tried the hour trend where your legs disappear and while most people thought they couldn't see it. So you see the zooms create like an immersive impact. It's a lot more visually engaging. It flows a lot better. You guys show exactly how to do it and the method will I'm going to zoom it in a little bit more right perfect now another thing that we can do is add a red arrow and a red circle our trusty overlays so I'm going to get these in quickly so I've got these they've got like a nice little glow to them as well if you want to use the exact same ones as these I have a whole huge package of free overlays free music sound effects all of that that you can use for completely free and you can get it inside of my discord if you go into the description link you will see a free resources link so if you type in your email you'll get access to all of this. Now if I just go here if you remember correctly the guy that we are analyzing for the outlier video he did like a really fast arrow that's circled around the screen now we can do something similar personally I'm not a fan of like a really fast arrow but we'll see what we can cook up so we just want it lasting over the first clip, so what we can do here is rotate it a little bit, let's just rewatch it, yeah that looks shit, so what we're gonna do instead is a red circle, I think that will be better just because of how much head movement this guy has and what we can do with this circle is we can give it like a quick bounce almost or a quick zoom where it goes like this. Start it off small and increase the size fairly fast and we can also track the movement a lot easier here. So here track it, bang okay let's just watch this. Okay, that's not bad. Now I do. Okay, I like that. The last guy, we just put a little arrow to him and give this arrow a pop in. One, two, three, four, increase. Go to two, decrease, a little pop in there. And we can increase the size of this. Actually but what we can do is again go to effect go to camera shake and I'm sorry we'll go to open effects camera shake boom and just give it like a subtle shake there you go now looks good we can do the same here as well to give it a nice sort of movement nothing crazy there is a bit of chop though let's see how that looks. Alright that will do. Now another thing that we could do is actually drag these two up and add another adjustment layer just to make the content pop a little bit more. I always like to add a bit of color grading so here you can go into color and I know this looks crazy probably like that Tony Stark scene where you've just got so much going on but trust me it's not that bad increase saturation, highlight, bit of shadow, contrast, you can mess around here. Of course this is dependent on the lighting of the clip but that looks decent. I mean you don't have to really do anything crazy. I'm going to actually lower the saturation a little bit here. What you can do as well if you go over to the triangle and like teardrop. If you decrease this it it makes the content look a lot sharper so it's almost like an enhancement if you want to enhance it further as well and give it like a 4k look you can install to pass AI and enhance it through there but it's not really necessary just makes the content look a lot better though yeah so that's decent and the competitor as well if we look at their video one more time this couple tried the water to take talk Trent, where you risk up your partner and water comes out. And although most people did the trend. Yeah so one thing you'll notice he had sound effects throughout especially when he adds overlays. Normally what the last couple did made them go viral. So we'll add a few clicks, a few things to make it sound a little bit better. Okay here we go. That's like the classic. Put that right at the start. Never make your sound effects too loud because it's jarring and you don't want people scrolling in the first second just because the ears are hurting, so make this quiet so it doesn't clash, what you can do is give it a bit of a faster zoom as well, so matches, so there's a little pop in, bang, I can just add a little click sound effects, right here we just need a camera shutter, all of these sound effects, they're all in the free resources like I said link in the description you can get all of them so let's rewatch it one more time, this couple try your legs disappear and while most people thought the last guys show exactly how to do it and the method will show you. Perfect. Now all that's left is to render this and add some captions and post. Title for this can just be how to do the owl trend, I guess, or if we go on to the competitor, you can do owl trend goes viral. Now to do captions, I'm in DaVinci Studio, so it would be a bit of a cheat to use the auto captions on this because the studio version, I think, costs like $300. Capcom also now charges Premiere Pro also has auto captions, but theirs isn't free. There is also a captions app, which I use on my phone, which I've already got prepaid for. It's like $64 a year or $65. They're pretty decent. You can use them. So I'm gonna jump on my phone. I'm gonna quickly edit the captions on this, to kind of show you around the app that I'm about to use. And after that, I will talk to you about your posting strategy and what you're gonna do going forward when it comes to outsourcing, scaling, and really running this up to make it into a business and makes a real money with it. Right, so I'm on the app, and I'm going to basically do the captions. You import the video and click continue, import one item, add captions, create project. And I've already got some like pre-safe templates. You can import fonts onto this and kind of adjust them with a shadow and the stroke that you want. So now what's most important, bad thing about this app, it mis-times a lot of captions, so you kind of have to manually adjust them but it doesn't really take that much time. So what I'm going to do here to make sure all the captions are timed, I'm going to manually adjust them by clicking on them, then clicking time in and dragging it along. So with captions, you never want them too long and you always want to make sure that you cut them up with how they are said. So here he says, this couple tried the owl trend, right? So it's divided into three sections basically. This couple tried the owl trend. This couple tried the owl trend where your legs disappear and you never want captions overlapping between clips because it looks messy, it does not look structured, Do not do that, okay? Exactly how to do it, okay? The trend, the last guy showed exactly... Right, showed is a bit delayed there, so we're gonna just drag it. The last guy showed exactly how to do it, and the method will shock you. Okay, that should be good. This couple tried the owl trend where your legs disappear and your partner holds you. And while most people thought they completed the trend, the last guy showed exactly how to do it, and the method will shock you. okay perfect you want the font to be something nice to look at i like maybe italic and curved and bold fonts i think that works really nicely for this niche a nice stroke a drop shadow you can highlight some words as well to make them more visually engaging but it isn't necessary i'm done with this now so i'm gonna click export it's gonna go to advanced options 60 frames per second than high bit rate and now I've basically got the video says 100% there we go it's ready to applaud now what you're going to do from now you're going to make these videos daily now I'm not talking about dance trends specifically you're going to make videos on the competitor you subniche to you analyzed you got all the information on and now you know how to make the videos but when it comes to posting you may have seen this thing called the zero of you jail. Now, this is a real thing, unfortunately. What happens is you might post some videos and they don't get any push. Now, this can happen and what do you do? Well, first of all, if you get zero views on one upload, you take a day break. And then you upload again. If that gets zero views, you take two day breaks. Then you upload again. If that gets zero views, you start a new channel. You start warming it up again and then you keep going. Then you keep going. I recommend using aged accounts especially ones that you've already watched YouTube with like I said earlier just because they are more trusted by the platform and they don't appear like they are some kind of bot. It's very good to have a big log of history on the account as it just appears a lot more legit and basically YouTube I guess feels safer to push your content out. Now yes I know this may be frustrating like you have to abandon channels but it's part of the game. you've got to do it is what it is. Now the 10 to 30k jail that people like to call a jail, it's not a jail, you just need to keep posting banger shorts. Once you get above 40k that's when you going to break out. Whatever video you find that performs a lot better from the rest, you're going to want to double down on that. Now you can play around like for me personally I've done this like dance trend thing, I don't have to keep it just to dance trends. It could be other trends, for example the mannequin challenge. I guess that's maybe like a trend, but maybe it could be other famous internet trends. And whatever I see works best, whatever genre I see works best, I'm just going to keep rinsing content on that until it doesn't get views anymore. And then I'm going to find the next thing and the next thing and the next thing. It's really not as hard as some people make it seem to be. You can make a serious amount of money with this as well. What you ideally want to look look for is you want to keep adapting the format and keep really working on your editing style until you're averaging a swipe rate of around 80% and getting over 100% APV again dependent on video length. You saw there I made like a 15 second video. On that your target APV would be like 130% which seems really high but for how short the video is it really isn't that high. I need you to post videos daily though because the thing is with a lot YouTube creators they just fail to be consistent and they expect these brilliant results but really it's consistency that builds these results so you need to post daily at least spare two hours a day where you can just make these videos you will be so grateful that you actually did this a few months down the line because this stuff can honestly change your life like as daft as it seems posting these clips online of like people dancing or whatever like it can be life changing I've been doing this for three years now. I can tell you first hand like I've changed my life with it, I've helped over a hundred students get monetized and changed their life with it and it's wild like the times we live in right now you need to take advantage of this. So now you know how to I guess read your stats, what you're aiming for. If you get bad stats like let's say a really low swipe rate, a really low average duration or APV, then you need to change something. Whether it's the pacing, whether it's the video topic, whether it's the way you approach the hook, something has to be changed up until you get those really good stats consistently, okay? This is crucial. Now, like I said, whatever works for you, double down, that's the process, we're going to go down, and that's what you're going to kind of rinse and repeat. You're going to keep staying up to date with the competitors, seeing what's working for them, you're going to be recreating it again, using their structure, adding your spin. You're going to do this until you meet the monetization threshold, which is 10 million views in 90 days which seems like such a crazy feat like such a massive milestone which milestone it is but how far away really seems like 10 million such a massive number in the short game you can get that with one video trust me it's a lot easier than it seems once you break through your golden and you just need to keep doubling down you hit that 10 mil you apply for monetization you make an add sense account then you're going to be making short revenue, well, that's since revenue from your shorts. And at that point, that's when it can become a business, right? Because I wouldn't consider outsourcing anything or really starting more channels until you monetize the first one. Don't hire anyone, do it yourself, really try and understand the game first, because a lot of creators then make the mistake of thinking, okay, I'm going to come into this business, you know, shorts, it doesn't require much capital to start with, and they start hiring all of these freelancers off websites like Fiverr, and they're trying to get these viral videos to be created from editors who don't know how to edit and they don't know what to tell them to do because they haven't made a video viral themselves. Right? So I always advise people make viral videos yourself first so then you can advise other people and teach editors and teach a team on how to execute that for you. You need to master this to the point where it's easy to explain to which child, okay? That's how you know if you've really understood a topic very well. So now honestly is the best time to get into all of this and once you are making money, then you're going to probably start to think, oh, let's make another channel. Let's start building a team, which is right. But do not rush into this because what a lot of shorts create is like to do, they get a little bit of money. They start a bunch of new projects, it's like shiny objects syndrome because they figure out that they can start making money and they start diversifying the focus into so many places, which can be pretty catastrophic to your main channel. Make sure you follow this strategy, okay? You get your main channel, you make viral videos, you start making money. Once you understand and make viral videos yourself, you'll understand what makes them go viral, why they go viral, and you can do it consistently, and you are making like at least 1,000 a month, then you can start looking to hire a team. You can start looking to outsource the work you least like to do, which in most cases is video editing, and you can train someone up to make the videos exactly to your standard, and then only then will you start moving onto new channels. is the best strategy for people to follow because what it will allow you to do is to make money with a channel, find someone outsource it so this can continue building while you diversify focus here and repeat the same structure. And by the time you know it, you've got like multiple little buildings, little digital assets I guess stacked up, right? And that's kind of the goal, that's kind of what we're going for. You don't just want to all stack here, let's go here here here, but then this starts going down because all your focus is diversified here. I hope that makes sense. When it comes to outsourcing, it's really about being able to train the person to the tea. Go on live cause, chat to them every day, treat them like a friend, not just like an employee, really get them involved with everything, but make sure that you create step-by-step instructions so they're no exactly what to do. So they have questions and answers for everything, or rather answers for everything, and there's little questions as possible, but definitely, you know, boost them up, tell them, ask me anything you want, you want to be easy to work for. Now, if you really want to outsource at a high level and scale channels, like for example, the channel that I showed you that I'm running here at the start, you know, I don't edit a single video for this. This barely takes me any time of day to run and is generating a significant amount of money. I can help you directly to do this like I have done for over a hundred of my students who now generate an insane amount of money in my free discord you can go into the public results channel where all of my students post their results it's a channel where only my students can post and you'll be able to see the crazy results that they get I mean if we just go into the discord quickly now sassy since joined made 50k you can see here knife wind with a knife nice 12 Mill real-time sneakers was 24 million real-time which is thousands per day. Dylan 18 granted the last 90 days. Kiwi 10 Mill, Roger here, 30 grand, 20 grand in the last three months. The list goes on. We've got 20 grand here from Paul's in just a couple of months of joining. Earn it. Addy making 400 a day. I have so many students doing these crazy figures like maybe here, 70 grand, 80 grand, so what's that? 150 grand with two channels in just last year. And I can help you grow the exact same way, give you the exact same blueprints that these students got. We take on beginners too, because we've got a full phase system guide inside of urnit, which takes you from zero to 1k, 1k to 10k, 10k to 100k and 100k plus. We tailor to every level of creator, which is why we are the number one YouTube shorts mentorship in the world. So if you want to really take this seriously, you want to take action, you want to get my guidance, you don't want any of the real like trial and error, you don't want to waste time, you want to be surrounded by killers and really get the best up-to-date information possible to succeed with shorts. You can apply to join in by clicking the top link in the description and hopefully I will review everything, we'll hop on a call and you may potentially be my next success story which would be absolutely amazing. So I hope you found this video very useful I hope, you know, you put the source to work when you take some action, you be consistent and you make some serious money. If you do send me some pictures, I'll be very proud to see your progress.
