Timestamp: 2026-05-08T21:24:26.065636
Title: 🌞Sunny哥 - 全网封神，巴菲特含金量巅峰神级演讲 连段永平都反复刷满10遍奉为圣经，足以见得这场演讲有多顶级 不止是碾压所有人的顶级投资心法，财富底... 2052572485439369516
URL: https://x.com/BTC__Sunny/status/2052572485439369516?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 58:48

Description:
这份文本是沃伦·巴菲特（Warren Buffett）在佛罗里达大学商学院的一次经典演讲及问答录。巴菲特在其中分享了他关于个人成长、职业选择和投资哲学的核心观点。

---

### **PART 1. 作者地图 (Author's Map)**

**1. 核心主张 (Core Thesis)**
长期的成功（无论是人生还是投资）并不取决于极高的智商或过人的精力，而取决于**良好的性格、正直的品质、形成正确的行为习惯**，以及在投资中坚守**“能力圈”**，寻找具有持久**“护城河”**的简单业务。

**2. 证据基础 (Evidentiary Base)**
*   **思想实验（直觉泵）：** “买入一个同学10%的未来”——用以证明性格品质（慷慨、正直、领导力）比智商和成绩更具长期价值。
*   **负面案例（警示）：** 长期资本管理公司（LTCM）的倒闭——证明即使是拥有最高智商和经验的人，如果为了不需要的东西去冒险，也会走向毁灭。
*   **商业案例（归纳）：** 可口可乐（品牌心智）、喜诗糖果（定价权）、吉列（重复购买率）——用以解释“护城河”的实际运作。
*   **个人经验（典范）：** 本·格雷厄姆的行为模式、巴菲特自己的职业生涯选择。

**3. 逻辑授权 (Logical Warrant)**
通过**类比推理**和**因果归纳**建立逻辑：
*   如果行为是由习惯决定的，而习惯在年轻时是可以改变的，那么塑造好的性格是逻辑上的最优选择。
*   如果一个商业模式足够简单且具有垄断性优势（护城河），那么它对宏观环境的依赖性就会降低，从而实现确定性的增长。

**4. 划定范围 (Stated Scope)**
*   **对象：** 主要是即将进入职场的MBA学生。
*   **限制：** 他明确表示自己不关心宏观经济（Macro guy），不预测利率，只关注具体的、可理解的商业（Knowable and Important）。

**5. 隐含对手 (Implicit Opponent)**
*   **华尔街的活跃交易者：** 那些靠频繁买卖和复杂模型（如希腊字母、六倍标准差）谋生的人。
*   **简历构建者：** 为了履历而去做自己不喜欢的工作的人。
*   **杠杆成瘾者：** 那些利用贷款进行激进扩张的投资者。

**6. 预期收获 (Intended Takeaway)**
*   **在人生中：** 趁年轻养成那些你愿意投资的同学所具备的品质。
*   **在职业中：** 做自己热爱的工作，直到你愿意“跳着踢踏舞去上班”。
*   **在投资中：** 等待“好球”，只在自己理解的范围内行动，寻找那些能抵御竞争的“城堡”。

---

### **PART 2. 刻薄但极其公平的评论 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair REVIEW)**

**1. 强化版论点 (Steelman)**
巴菲特的哲学本质上是一种**“风险最小化”的生存主义**。他认为在复利的世界里，最大的敌人不是增长缓慢，而是“出局”。通过将智力门槛设定在合理水平，并依靠性格（耐心、正直）来弥补情绪波动，投资者可以利用人类心智中极其稳定的部分（如对品牌的依赖、习惯的粘性）来获取近乎确定性的长期回报。

**2. 最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)**
> “我不知道他们的业务在10年后会是什么样子……我绝对不知道他的竞争对手的业务在10年后会是什么样子。”

巴菲特对“可预测性”的极端依赖是他的阿喀琉斯之踵。在技术变革缓慢的时代（如可乐、糖果），这种逻辑无懈可击；但在**颠覆式创新**加速的今天，他的“能力圈”可能变成“过时圈”。如果一个行业的规则被彻底重写（如数字摄影之于柯达），他所依赖的“历史逻辑”将失效。

**3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)**
*   **幸存者偏差：** 他反复提及可口可乐和喜诗糖果，但这些是过去一个世纪中最成功的极少数案例。他淡化了自己早期的“雪茄烟蒂”投资失败，以及像美国航空（US Air）这种虽然最后保本但逻辑错误的投资。
*   **忽略结构性优势：** 他谈论“卵巢彩票”时承认了运气，但在谈论商业成功时，却倾向于将其归功于管理层的“正直”和“护城河”，而有时这仅仅是因为该行业在特定历史阶段处于垄断地位。

**4. 隐藏前提 (Hidden Premises)**
*   **人类行为的永恒性：** 假设消费者的口味和品牌忠诚度在未来几十年不会因为社交媒体、健康意识或平台经济而发生根本性改变。
*   **资本的无限耐心：** 假设所有投资者都有像他一样的资金结构（长期浮存金），不需要面对短期赎回压力。

**5. 盲区 (The Blind Side)**
巴菲特的视角完全排除了**“破坏性创造”**的力量。他通过避开科技股来规避风险，但也因此错失了通过技术进步创造新护城河的机会。此外，他的“正直论”在某种程度上是一种**结果论**——成功者往往看起来更正直，而失败者（如LTCM的人）则被贴上“愚蠢”的标签，尽管两者在决策时的道德水平可能并无差异。

**6. 一击必杀 (One Hit Kill)**
如果“护城河”的拓宽速度赶不上技术迭代导致的“城墙倒塌”速度，那么“买入并持有”是否仅仅是一种昂贵的乡愁？

**7. 什么能解决争论 (What Would Settle It)**
对比未来20年，一个由“巴菲特式护城河公司”组成的组合与一个由“高研发投入的科技领军者”组成的组合，看在资本收益率（ROE）和市值增长上，谁能跑赢通胀和技术更迭的周期。

---

### **PART 3. 逻辑概念地图 (Mermaid Diagram)**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    %% 核心哲学
    Root["<b>巴菲特的人生与投资哲学</b><br/>(基于佛罗里达大学演讲)"]:::mainNode

    subgraph SG_Life["🌟 人生与性格 (性格决定论)"]
        direction TB
        L1["<b>正直、智力、精力</b><br/>(没有正直，后两者会毁灭你)"]:::lifeNode
        L2["<b>10%同学实验</b><br/>(购买可被复制的行为习惯)"]:::lifeNode
        L3["<b>习惯的枷锁</b><br/>(年轻时易改变，年老时无法挣脱)"]:::lifeNode
        L4["<b>卵巢彩票</b><br/>(承认运气的成分，保持谦逊)"]:::lifeNode
        L5["<b>跳着踢踏舞上班</b><br/>(职业选择应基于热爱而非简历)"]:::lifeNode
    end

    subgraph SG_Invest["💰 投资逻辑 (护城河模型)"]
        direction TB
        I1["<b>能力圈 (Circle of Competence)</b><br/>(不求大，但求边界清晰)"]:::investNode
        I2["<b>护城河 (The Moat)</b><br/>(低成本、品牌心智、定价权)"]:::investNode
        I3["<b>简单业务</b><br/>(10年后仍可预测，如口香糖)"]:::investNode
        I4["<b>反对宏观预测</b><br/>(关注Knowable & Important)"]:::investNode
        I5["<b>复利与时间</b><br/>(时间是好生意的朋友，坏生意的敌人)"]:::investNode
    end

    subgraph SG_Review["⚔️ 批判性审视 (Hostile Review)"]
        direction TB
        R1["<b>幸存者偏差</b><br/>(过度依赖可乐等极少数案例)"]:::reviewNode
        R2["<b>技术盲点</b><br/>(护城河在颠覆式创新面前的脆弱性)"]:::reviewNode
        R3["<b>确定性悖论</b><br/>(为了确定性可能错失整个时代的红利)"]:::reviewNode
        R4["<b>资金结构特权</b><br/>(普通人难以复制其长期浮存金优势)"]:::reviewNode
    end

    %% 连接
    Root --> SG_Life
    Root --> SG_Invest
    SG_Life -- "决定" --> I1
    SG_Invest -- "逻辑冲突" --> R2
    SG_Life -- "忽视" --> R4
    L1 -- "被批判" --> R1

    %% 样式定义
    classDef mainNode fill:#FFD700,stroke:#DAA520,stroke-width:3px,color:#000;
    classDef lifeNode fill:#E1F5FE,stroke:#01579B,stroke-width:2px,color:#01579B;
    classDef investNode fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20;
    classDef reviewNode fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#C62828,stroke-width:2px,color:#B71C1C;

    style SG_Life fill:#F0F4C3,stroke:#AFB42B,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Invest fill:#C8E6C9,stroke:#4CAF50,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Review fill:#FFCDD2,stroke:#F44336,stroke-width:2px
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
Let's say a few words come in early and then the highlight for me will be getting your questions in a few minutes, because I want to talk about what's on your mind. I urge you to throw art balls. It's more fun for me if you put a little speed on the pictures as they come in. You can ask about anything except the last week's Texas A&M game. We have a couple of men here from Stuncrust. I was just out with the cup meeting. And I said to Jimmy Williams there who Ben is on trust for many years. And he wanted to be sure that I wore this sun dress shirt down here. I'm trying to get sponsorship on the Seeker Golf Store. I haven't had much luck, but now on the bank or store, I'm doing a little bit better. He said, I got a percentage of the increase in deposits and games, though, so I'll go out for some trust. You're also addressed. I would like to talk for just one minute to the students about your future when you leave here, because you're going to learn a tremendous amount of my investments and you'll learn not to do well. You've all got the IQ to do well. You've all got the initiative and energy to do well, or you wouldn't be here. And most of you will succeed in meeting your aspirations. but in determining whether you succeed, there's more to it than the intellect and energy. And I'd like to talk for just a second about that. In fact, it was followed by T. Keywood and Omaha. I used to say that he looked at three things, and hired people to look for integrity, intelligence, and energy. And he said that if the person didn't have the first two, the latter two would kill him. Because if they don't have integrity, you want to dumb and lazy, you don't want him smart and energetic. And I really like to talk about that first one. Because we know you have got the second two. And I did play along with me a little game for just a second in terms of thinking I've had a question that you've all been here, I guess almost all of your second year MBAs and you've gotten to know your classmates and think for a moment that I granted you the right to buy 10% of one of your classmates for the rest of this or a lifetime. Now you can't pick one of the rich ones that doesn't count. You've got to pick them but pick somebody who's wanting to do it on their own merit. And I give you an hour to think about it, which one of you can pick them on your classmates is the one you want to own 10% of for the rest of the lifetime. Are you going to give an IQ test? Pick a woman the highest IQ. I got it. I can pick the one with the best grades. I got it. And I can pick the most energetic one, necessarily, or the one with the best place the most initiative. But if you're going to start looking for qualitative factors in addition to this, everybody's got it up right here. And I'm never cheating. And I would say that if you thought about it for an hour, decided who you're going to place that bet on. You probably pick the one who you responded the best to. And one that was going to have the leadership qualities. The ones who were going to be able to get other people to carry out their interests. And that would be the person who was generous, us, and get credit to other people for their own ideas, all kinds of qualities like that. And you can write down those qualities that you admire, so to speak, whoever you admire most in the class. And then I would throw in a hooker, I would say, as part of only 10% of this person can't agree to go short 10% for somebody else in the class. No, that's more fun, isn't it? Anything but I hope I don't go out of there short of it. And again, you wouldn't make the person with the lowest IQ or the, you would start thinking about the person really, who turned you off for one reason. And very, very qualities, quite apart from their academic achievement, but they had very small issues, and they just didn't really want to be around them, and other people didn't want to be around. of qualities that lead to that, but there'd be a whole bunch of things, you know, but it's the person who's inconsistent, all the person's free, the person who's slightly dishonest, cuts corners, all of these qualities. And you can write those down on the right-hand side of the page. And you look at those qualities on the left and right-hand side, there's one interesting thing about them. It's not the ability to throw all football 60 yards. It's not the ability to run the 100 yard dash and 9-3. It's not being the best looking person in the class. They're all qualities that if you really want to have the ones on the left-hand side, you can have them. I mean, they're qualities of behavior, temperament, character that are achievable. not forbidden to anybody in this group. And if you look at the qualities on the right-hand side, the ones that you find turn you off in other people, there's not a quality there that you have to have. If you have it, you can get rid of it. And you get rid of a lot easier your age than you can in my age, because most behaviors is habitual. And they say the chains of habit are too light to be felt until they're too heavy to be broken. And there's no question about I see people with these self-destructive behavior patterns that my age are even 10 or 20 years younger. And they really are entrap by them. They go around and they do things that turn off other people right and left. and they don't need to be that way, but by a certain point, they guess what they can hardly change it. But if you're age, you can have any habits, any patterns of behavior that you wish. It's simply a question of which you decide. And when I decide the ones that, I mean, if you like, Ben Graham did this, Ben Freikler did it before, but Ben Graham and his little teens looked around and he looked at the people he admired, and he said, you know, I want to be admired. So why don't I just behave like them? And he found there was nothing impossible about behaving like them. And some already he did the same thing on the reverse side in terms of getting rid of those qualities. So I would suggest that if you write those qualities down, I think about a little while, I'm making a visual. You will be the one that you want to buy 10% of when you get all through. And the beauty of it is already 100%. You're stuck with it. You might as well be that person, somebody else. Well, that's a short little sermon. So let's get on to what you're interested in. And like I say, you can go all over the lot. So I don't know exactly how we're going to handle this, but let's start with a hand here someplace earlier. Where do we go for the first one? Yeah, right here. Talks about Japan. My thoughts about Japan? I'm not a macro guy. Now I say to myself, what works your half of making borrow money for 10 years at 1% in Japan now? one percent. I said to myself, gee, I took Graham's class 45 years ago, and I've been working hard at this thing all my life. Maybe I can earn more than one percent. I mean, we're already out of it. One percent anger. This isn't even possible, doesn't. So, I've been wanting to get involved in currency risk, so I have to do it in something that was you end to nominate it. So, I have to get an IPV in Japanese real estate or in Japanese business or something, or something like that. And all I have to do is beat one percent, and that's all the money it's going to cost me. I can get it for 10 years. So far, I'm fine, I think. It's kind of interesting. The Japanese companies are in very low returns on equity, and they They have a bunch of businesses that earn 4, 5, 6% on equity, and it's a very hard deal. They earn a lot as an investor when the business you're in doesn't earn very much money. Now some people do it. In fact, I've got a front-water Schloss who worked with Graham at the same time I did, and it was the first way I went up stock to buy stock selling way below working capital. Very cheap quantitative stocks. I call up a cigar butt approach to investing, is that you walk down the street, you look around for a cigar butt someplace, and you finally see one and a soggy and kind of repulsive. But there's one puff left in it, so you pick it up, and the puff is free. I mean, it's a cigar butt stock. I mean, you've got one free puff on it, and then you throw it away and you walk down the street. I mean, it's not elegant, but if you're looking for a free puff, it works. Those are low-return businesses, but time is the friend of the wonderful business. It's the enemy of a lousy business. If you're in a lousy business for a long time, you're going to get a lousy result, even if you buy a cheap. If you're in a wonderful business for a long time, even if you pay a little too much going in, you're going to get a wonderful result if you stay in a long time. I find very few wonderful businesses in Japan that present now. They may change the culture in some way, so that the management is getting more subtle or responsive over there and returns are higher, but at the present time, you'll find a lot of low-return businesses. And that was true even when the Japanese economy was booming. I mean, it's amazing. They had an incredible market without incredible companies. They were incredible in terms of doing a lot of business, but they weren't incredible in terms of the return on equity that they achieved. And that's finally caught up with them. So we have so far done nothing there, but as long as money's a month percent, I'll keep looking. You were rumored to be one of the rescue buyers of long-term capital. What was the play there? What did you see? Well, there's a story in the current fortune magazine. One has Rupert Murdoch's picture on the cover that tells the whole story of our involvement. It's kind of an interesting story because it's a long story, so I won't go into all the background, but I got the really serious call about long-term capital about four weeks ago, this Friday when I was, it was my granddaughter, I got it in the mid afternoon, my granddaughter was having her birthday party that evening, and then I was flying that night to Seattle to go on a 12-day trip with gates on a door last and a private train all kinds of things, where I was really out of communication. But I got this call on a Friday afternoon, saying the things were really getting serious there. I had some other calls before that the article gets into a few weeks earlier. I know those people most of them pretty well, a lot of them are solemn when I was there. the place was importing and the federal sending people up that weekend and so between that Friday and the following Wednesday when the New York Fed in effect orchestrated a rescue effort but without any federal money involved. I was quite active but I was having this terrible time because we were sailing up through these canyons which held no interest for me whatsoever. Alaska and the captain would say, we just stare over here we might see some bears or whales and I said, stare where you got a good satellite. We put it a bit on Wednesday morning. By then I was in Boseman, Montana, and I talked to Bill McDonough, the head of the New York Fed, about 10 o'clock. They were having a need of anchors at 10 o'clock that morning in New York, and I caught him. Well, we actually, the order that he showed me called me out there in my home in a little bit before 10, New York time, and we made a bet. It was a, it was because it was being done at a long distance and everything. It was really the outline of the bid. But in the end, I was in it for 250 million essentially for the net assets, but we would have put in three and three quarters of a billion on top of that. And it would have been three billion from Portia Alpha Way, 700 million from AIG and 300 million from Goldman Sachs. And we submitted that, but we put a very short time to use on it, because when you're bidding on $100 billion worth of security that are moving around, you don't want to leave a fixed price bid out there very long plus we were worried about it getting shot. In the end, the bankers made the deal. And, but it was an interesting period. The whole one from Capital Management, and I hope most of you are familiar with it. The whole story is really fascinating, because if you take John Maryweather and Eric Rosenfeld, Larry Helen Brand, Craig Hawkins, Victor Agani, from Nobel Prize winners and Merton Sholes. If you take the 16 of them, they probably have as high an average IQ as any 16 people working together in one business in the country, including at Microsoft or wherever you want to name. So incredible amount of intellect in that room. Now you combine that with the fact that those 16 had had extensive experience in the field they're operating. I mean, this was not a bunch of guys who made their money selling men's clothing and all the sudden went into the securities business. And they had, they had an aggregate of 16 and probably had 350 or 400 years of experience doing exactly what they were doing. And then you throw in the third factor that most of them had virtually all of their very substantial networks in the business. So they had their own money up, hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars of their own money up, super high in like working in a field they knew and essentially they went broke. And that to me is absolutely fascinating. I mean, if I ever write a book, it's going to be called Why Smart People Do Dumb Things. My partner says it should be autobiographical, but this might be an interesting illustration. And these are perfectly decent guys. I respect them and they helped me out when I was at problems with Solomon. So they're not bad people at all. to make money they didn't have and didn't need, they risk what they did have and didn't need. And that's foolish. That is just plain foolish. I don't make any research where I queue is. If you risk something that is important to you for something that is unimportant to you, it just does not make any sense. I don't care whether the odds are 100 to one that you succeed or 1000 to one that you succeed. If you hand me a gun with 1000 chambers, I have a million chambers and there's a bullet in one chamber and you just put it up your tempo, how much do you want it to be paid to pull it once? I'm not gonna pull it. You know, you can name any sum you want but it doesn't do anything for me on the upside. And I think the downside's fairly clear. So I'm not interested in that kind of a game and yet people do it financially without thinking about it very much. It was a great book. It was a great title. It was a lousy book written once with a great title. By Walter Gutman, the title was you only have to get rich once. Now, that seems pretty fundamental, doesn't it? What is... If you've got $100 million at the start of the year and you're going to make 10% of your ungly rich and 20% of your leverage 99 times out of 100, what difference does it make it in the end of the year with even $110 million, $10 million, $120 million? Makes no difference at all. I mean, if you die at the end of the year, you know, the guy who writes up the story may make a typo. He may say 110, even he had 120. nothing at all. You know, it makes absolutely no difference. It makes your family make no difference to anything. And yet the downside to managing other people's money is not only losing all your money, but it's disgrace and humiliation and facing friends whose money you've lost. I just can't imagine an equation that that makes sense for. And yet 16 guys with very high IQs were very decent people entered into that game. And you know, I think it's madness. And it's it's it's produced by an over-reliance to some extent. on things, you know, those guys would tell me back when I was a solemn, you know, that a six sigma valve wouldn't, you know, wouldn't touch us for a seven sigma valve, but they were wrong. I mean, their history does not tell you the probabilities of future financial things happening, and they had a great alliance on mathematics, and they felt that the bait of the stock told you something about the risk of the stock, and then tell you damn thing about the risk of the stock in my view, and signals do not tell you about the risk of going broke in my view, and maybe an interview now, too. But, you know, I don't I don't like to even use them as an example because they are, I mean the same thing in a different way could happen to any of us probably, where we really have a blind spot about something that's crucial because we know a whole lot about something else. It's like Henry Kaufman said the other days that the people that are going broke in this situation are just two of two types. The ones who knew nothing and the ones who knew everything. It's sad in a way. I urge you, in anything, we never basically borrow money. We have flow through insurance business and do good. But I never borrow money. I never borrow money when I had 10,000 bucks basically because what difference did I make? One is I went along and it didn't mean it was like $10,000 or $1,000 or $10,000,000. You know, except if I had a medical emergency or something and come along like that. But I was going to do the same things when I had a lot of money. It's when I had very little money. If you think about the difference between me and you in terms of how we live, you know, we wear the same clothes basically. It's untrustworthy to be mine. So we wear the same clothes. We all have a chance to drink the juice of the gods here. But we all have a lot of my bottles are better yet dairy queen. And we live in a house that's that's that's warm and winter and cool and summer and and we watch Nebraska Texas. Hey, I'm on a big screen. You know, you see it the same way. I see it. We do everything Our lives aren't that different, you know that you'll get decent medical care or something happens to you And I'll get decent medical care. The only way to do is we travel differently. I ride around this old plane. I love it And that takes money But if you leave if you leave that aside, if you leave that it we travel differently, but other than travel You know, I would I think about it. Think what what can I do that you can't do Now, I get to work in a job that I love, but I've always worked in a job that I love to mind. I love that just as much when I was a big deal, I made a thousand bucks and I urge you to work in jobs you love. I mean, I think you're out of your mind if you take, keep taking jobs that you don't like because you don't look good on your resume. I was with the fellow Harvard the other day who was taking me over to talk and he was 28 and he was telling me, well, I've only done a life and I was just terrific. And then I said, what are you gonna do next? And he said, well, I said, after I get up, my, my, my MBA, so maybe I'll go work for Madden because I'll be firm because I look good on my resume. I said, wait, I give it 20, even to all these things, I mean, you've got to resume the 10 times as soon as I've ever seen an hour. I said, you take another job, you don't like this. I said, isn't that a little like saving up sex for your old age? You know what I mean? There comes a time when you ought to start going with the audience. You're okay. So, I think I got the point across you. But you ought to take a job. When you get out of your take a job, you love. Don't take a job. You think it's going to work that on your resume. Take a job you love. You may change your way around, but you'll jump out a bit in the morning. I mean, when I got out of Columbia, The first thing I tried to go to work for Graham immediately, I offered to go to work for nothing. He said I was overpriced. But I kept pestering him. I went out to him on. I sold securities for three years. I kept writing him and giving him ideas. And finally, I went to work for a couple of years. And it was a great experience. But I always really worked in the job. I worked in the job that I would, you know, love doing it. You should really take a job that if you were independently wealthy you would take. That's the job to take, because that's the one that you're going to have great fun. And if you learn something, you'll be excited about it. Then you can't miss. You may go to do something else later on, but you'll get way more out of it. I don't know how I got off on that, but I do think that if you think you're going to be a lot happier if you've got 2x instead of x, you're probably making mistake. You ought to find something you like that works with that, and you'll get in trouble if you think the making 10x or 20x is the answer to everything in life, because then you will do things like work on when you should under, when you cut corners on things that your boy or one should have cut corners on her. It just doesn't make any sense. She won't like it when you look back on it. Can you talk to the students about companies they can like? I don't mean anything. I mean what makes the company tell you to do it. I like business as I can understand. We'll start with that. That narrows it down about 90% of them. I mean, say all kinds of things I don't understand. But fortunately, there's enough I do understand it. You had this big wide world out there. Almost every company's publicly owned. So you got all American business practically available. So yeah. Now, to start with doesn't make sense to go with things you think you can understand. But you can understand something. I can understand this. I mean, you can understand this. Anybody can understand this. I mean, this is a product that basically hasn't been changed much. I've out of the cherry, you know, since 1886 or whatever it was, and it's a simple business. It's not an easy business. I don't want a business. It's easy for competitors. I want a business with a motor around it. I want a very valuable casting in the middle. And then I want to, I want the Duke who's in charge of that castle to be honest and hardworking and able. And then I want a big motor around the castle. And that moat can be various things. The moat in a business like our auto insurance business, if Geico is low cost, I mean, people have to buy auto insurance. So everybody's going to have one auto insurance policy for car basically for driver and and I can't sell them 20 you know but they have to buy one. I'm going to buy them. They're going to buy them based on service and cost. Most people will assume the service is fairly identical among companies are close enough. So they're going to do it on cost. So I got to be the low cost producer if that's my mobile. They sent my cost get further lower than the other guy. I've thrown a couple of shards into the mobile. Now all the time you've got a wonderful castle. There are people out there going to try and attack it. I go away from you and I want to castle and I can understand but I want to castle with a motor on it. 30 years ago Eastman Codex was just as I mean if you were gonna take a picture of your six month old baby and you're gonna want to look at that picture 20 years from now and you're gonna have 50 years from now and you're never gonna get a chance I mean you're not professional photographers so that you can evaluate because they looked at 20 or 50 years ago. What is in your mind about that about that photography company is what counts because they are promising you that the picture you take today is going to be terrific to look at 20 or 30 or 50 years from now about something that's very important to you. You know child or whatever it may be. Well, Kodak had that in space 30 years ago. They owned that. They had what I call share of mine. Forget about share of a sharemind. They have something in everybody's mind around around the world. But I get really old boxering. This said, Kodak is the best. It's priceless. They've lost some of that. They've lost it all. And it's not going to George Fisher runs the Georgia doing a great job. But they let that mold narrow. They let Fuji come and start narrowing them out in various ways. They let them get into the Olympics and take away that special aspect. Only Kodak was fit to photograph the Olympics. So Fuji gets there and immediately in people's minds. Fuji becomes more unapparity with Kodak. You haven't seen that with Kodak's molded lighter now that was 30 years ago. You can't see the moped day by day, but every time the infrastructure gets built in some country, they didn't get profitable for cope, but we'll be 20 years from now. The moped is widening a little bit. Things are all the time changing. That's more than one direction. 10 years from now, you can see the difference. Our managers are the businesses. I've got one message to them, which is the widening moped. And we want to throw crocodiles and sharks and everything else. Gators, I guess. In the moped, they keep away competitors. And that comes from about through service. It comes about through quality of product. It comes about through cost. It comes about some kind of through patent. It comes about through real estate location. So that's the business I'm looking for. What kind of businesses are I going to find like that? Well, I'm going to find them in simple products, because I'm not going to be able to figure out what the most going to look like for Oracle or Lotus or Microsoft 10 years from now. I mean, the gates of the best business man I've ever run into and they've got a hell of a position that I really don't know what their business will look like 10 years from now. And I certainly don't know what his competitors businesses are going to look like 10 years from now. Now, I'll name one I don't own. I know what the chewing gum businesses look like 10 years from now. I mean, the internet is not going to change how we chew them. And nothing much else is going to change how we chew them. And then there are going to be lots of new processes You know, our experiment usually for a dollar is going to evaporate, so it isn't going to happen. You'll give me a billion dollars and tell me to go and shoot into a business, and try and make it real damp. In regulation, I can't do it. And that's the way I think about business. I say to myself, give me a billion dollars, and how much can I hurt the guy? Give me ten billion dollars. Give me ten billion dollars, and how much can I hurt Coca-Cola around the world? I can't do it. But those are good businesses. Now, give me some money. Tell me to put somebody in some other fields, and I can figure out how to do it. So I want a simple business, easy to understand, great economics now, honest and able management. And then I can see about, in a general way, where they're going to be ten years from now. And I can't see whether it be ten years or not, I don't want to buy it. Basically, I don't want to buy any stock, or if they close the New York Stock Exchange tomorrow for five years, I won't be happy on it. I buy a farm, and I don't get a quote on it for five years, and I'm happy if the farm goes, okay. You know, I buy an apartment house, don't get a quote on it for five years, I'm happy if the apartment house produces the returns that I expect. But people buy a stock and they look at the price the next morning, and they decide whether they're doing well or not doing well. It's crazy, because they're buying a piece of the business. That's what Graham, the most fundamental part of what he taught me, you know. You're not buying a stock, you're buying a part ownership in the business. You will do well if the business does well and if you didn't pay a totally selling price and that's what it's all about and you ought to buy businesses You understand just like if you're buying farm you ought to buy farms you understand It's not complicated It's in calling this gram, but I mean it's just pure gram. I was very fortunate because I I picked up a book when I was 19 I got interest in stocks when I was about six or seven and I bought my first stock when I was 11 I was playing around all this stuff and I had shards and volume and I'm making all kinds of technical calculations everything and then I picked up a little book and it just said that you're not buying some movie timber symbol that bounces around every day you're buying a part of the business and soon as I started thinking about it I'll fight everything else for them very simple so we buy businesses we think we can understand there's no one here that can't understand the Coca-Cola Company I would say there's no one here that can understand some new internet company I said at the end of being they sure that if I were teaching a class in business school on the final exam I would pass out the information on the internet company and ask each student to value of them anybody gave me an answer I don't know how to do that but people go every day I mean it's exciting if you look at it like going to racers or something and that's a different thing but if you're investing I mean investing is putting out money be sure of getting more money back later, you know, and I'm probably breaking. And to do that, you have to understand what you're doing at it. I mean, you have to understand the business. And you can understand some businesses, but not all businesses. Yep. Warren, so you covered half of it, which is trying to understand the business and buying the business, but you also are alluded to getting a return on the amount of capital you invest in the business as an investor. And yeah, that comes back to the way you're paying for the business. How do you determine what you think it's fair price to pay for the business? It's a tough thing to decide, but I don't want to lie in any business, I'm not terribly sure of it. So if I'm terribly sure of it, it probably doesn't, it probably doesn't offer incredible returns. I mean, why should something that's essentially a cinch to do well offer you 40% a year something like that So we don't have huge returns in mind, but we don't have a mind ever losing anything and I mean, we bought C's candy in 1972 C's candy was then selling 16 million pounds of candy at a dollar 95 a pound and it was making two bits a pound or four million Pre-tax we paid 25 million dollars for it took no capital to speak up When we looked at that business, basically my partner Charlie and I really decided that there was a little uncapped pricing power there And in other words, whether that dollar 95 box of candy could just easily sell for two or two in a quarter You can sell for two and a quarter and another 30 cents a pound was four million eight on 16 million pounds Which on a 25 million purchase price was mine? We didn't do anything. We never hired a consultant in our lives I mean our idea of consulting is gone by box of candy, you know Well, what we didn't know was that they had share of mine in California There was something especially every person in California something in their mind about these candy Oh, we're home and it was favorable. They take out a box, you know Valentine's day and giving some girls She kissed them if she slapped them, you know, we'd have no business But if she kisses them, you know, that's that's what we wanted their mind So he's candy getting kissed if we can get that in the minds of people we can raise prices And I've walked out and I bought it in 1972. Every year I raise the price on December 26th. I raise it the day after Christmas. So everybody could we sell a lot of Christmas back. We'll make $60 million this year. We'll sell 30 million pounds, make $2 a pound. Same business, same formulas, same everything. 60 million bucks still doesn't take any capital. I will make more money than yours from now. But at that 60 million, we make about $55 million in the three weeks before Christmas. And our company's song is what a friend we have in Jesus. I mean, here it is. Here's a good business. But the important thing about that business is the thing about it. People don't buy, most people don't buy box shoppers to consume themselves. that Bimes gifts, you know somebody, somebody's birthday, one like it's a holiday. Valentine's Day single biggest day of the year. Christmas is the biggest season by far, but women buy for Christmas and they plan ahead and buy over two or three big periods. Men buy on Valentine's Day, they're driving home, we run ads on radio, you know, you know, you know, the guys are gearing off the freeway right now. And they won't care about home without a box of candy when we get through with them on our radio ads. So that Valentine's Day is the biggest day. But can you imagine going home on Valentine's Day and our C's candy is now 11 bucks a pound, thanks to my brilliance. And let's say there's candy available at $6 a pound. But you really want to walk in on Valentine's Day and hand, I mean, you like that always favorable images of the sea standing over the years and she sees you and that's the way she thinks of you during the rest of the year, which means you've got a badly. And you walk in and say, honey, this year, I took a little bit and then hand her a box of candy. I mean, it just isn't our work. So in a sense, it's, it's, it's, there's untapped prices, it's price, it's not price-dependent basically. Think of Disney. I mean, Disney is selling, we'll say, home videos, I don't have 16, 95, 18, 95, or whatever. All over the world, people, and we'll say particularly mothers in this case. something in their mind about Disney. I mean, every person in this room when you say Disney has something in their mind about it. I say universal pictures, you don't have anything in your mind. You know, I say 20% free fox, you don't have anything special in your mind. I say Disney, you've got something in your mind. And it's true around the world. Now picture yourself with a couple young kids, you know, who you want to put away for a couple hours every day to get a little piece of mind. And you know, if you get a one video about watching 20 times. So you go to the video store or where you buy the video, are you going to sit there in Premiere, you know, 10 different videos and watch them each for an hour and a half to decide which one you're going to get your choice? No, I mean, let's there's one there for 16.95 and the Disney's there for 17.95. You know if you take the Disney video, you can be okay. So you buy it. You don't have to make a quality decision on something that you don't want to spend the time to do. And so you can get a little bit more money if you're Disney. And you'll sell a lot more videos. It makes it a wonderful business. It makes it very tough for the other guy. How would you try to create a brand? Dreamers is trying. But how would you try to create a brand that can be used with Disney around the world and replace the concept that people have in their minds about Disney with something such universal pictures, you know, so that the mother's going to walk in and pick out a universal pictures video in preference to a Disney. It's not going to happen. Coca-Cola is associated with people being happy around the world. Where every place they're happy, where Disney World, or Disneyland World, where the world couple will be at the moment. So every place where people are happy, having us and co-co-together. Now, you give me, I don't care how much money. And tell me that I'm going to do that with RC Cola around the world. And have 5 billion people that have a favorable image in their mind about RC Cola can't get done. You know, and you can fool around with a fool, and do anything you want to do. You might price discounts on weekends and everything, but you're not going to touch it. And that's what you want to have in a business. That's the mode. And you want that mode to widen. And if your seas candy, you want to do everything in the world to make sure that the experience, Basically, if giving that gift leads to a favorable reaction, that means it's in the box, it means the person that sells it to you because all our business is done when we're terribly busy. I mean, people come in and those weeks before Christmas are on Valentine's Day, they're long lines. So five o'clock in the afternoon, some woman is selling the last person, the last box of candy, and that person's been waiting in line for maybe 20 or 30 customers. And if the salesperson smiles at that last customer, our mode is white, and if she's Charles Adam, our mode is narrowly. We can't see it and it's going on every day, but that's the key to it. I mean, the total part of the product delivery is having everything associated with, Whether it's AC's candy and something doesn't happen again. That's what business is all about. Yep. Do you want to first say something about the U.S. Volta? The U.S. Volta was part of the U.S. Volta. The best bias is the question is whether, have I ever bought a company where the numbers told me not to do it? How much is qualitative and how much is quantitative? The best bias has been when the numbers almost tell you not to. I mean, because then you feel so strongly about the product and not just the fact that you're getting used to Garbucci. But it's compelling. I mean, I own a windmill company all the time. So I, you know, windmills are cigar butts, believe me. I want to break free, I want to do a third working capital, and we make money out of it. But there's no repetitive money to be earned. There's a one-time profit in something like that, and it's just not the thing to be doing. I went through that phase, and it was shriek, or companies, and all kinds of things, but in terms of the qualitative, I probably understand the qualitative the moment I get the phone calling. Almost every business we've bought has taken five or ten minutes, I mean, in terms of analysis. And we've bought two businesses this year. January is, you know, 18 billion or something, Bill, I've never been to their home office. I hope it's there. There could be just a few guys that say, well, what number should we send off at this month? I can see them coming in once a month and they'll all just tell, we've got $20 million of the night this month, instead of $18 million or something. But I've never been there. And before I bought executive jet, which is the fractional ownership of jets, and before I bought it, I've never been there. I bought my family a quarter interest in the program for years earlier and I've seen the service and seen the developer. And I got the numbers. But if you don't know enough to know about the business instantly, you won't know enough that a month or two months. I mean, you have to have sort of the background of understanding and knowing what you do understand don't understand. That is the key. It's defining what I call your circle of confidence. And everybody's got a different circle of confidence. The important thing is not how big the circle is. The important thing is staying inside the circle. And if that circle's only got 30 companies in it out of thousands on the big board, 20, 30, they are. You're okay. And you should know those businesses well enough so that you don't need to read, do lots of work. Now I did a lot of work in the earlier areas just in getting familiar with businesses. And the way I would do that is I would go out and use what Phil Fisher called a scuttleman approach. I'd go out, I talked to customers, I talked to maybe ex-employees in some cases. as I talk to suppliers, everybody. Every time I'd see somebody in an industry, let's say I was in just the coal industry, they go around and see every coal company, and I'd ask every, every CEO, if you only by stock in one coal company, I wasn't your own, which one would it be? And why? You piece those things together, and you learn a lot about the business after a while. And funny is, you get very similar answers as long as you ask about competitors. You know, I would say, if you got a silver bullet, you know, and you put it through, they had a one competitor, which competitor or why. You know, you'll find out who the best kind of industry is in that case or the one that's coming out. And so there's a lot of things you can learn about a business. I've done that in the past on the businesses that I feel I could understand, so I don't have to do much of that anymore. It's a nice thing about investing. You're not going to worry about it, and very new. I mean, you can do it if you want to. But if you learned about really showing them 40 years ago, you still understand really showing them. It's not that a lot of great insights together and the sort as you go on. So, you do get a database. I had a guy, Frank Roney, who ran Melville for many years, his father-in-law died on the company called H.H. Brown, a shoe company. And he put up a Goldman Sachs, but he was playing golf with a friend of mine here in Florida. And mentioned to this friend, the guy said, why don't you call me at the end of the golf match. minutes I basically had a deal and I knew Frank and I knew the kind of business. I sort of knew the basic ergonomics of a shoe business and so I could buy it and the quantity I got to decide with the prices. But you know that's either yes or no. I mean I thought I'm full on lot with negotiation so if they have a price that makes sense to me I buy it and if they don't I'm not was happy the day before so I'll be happy that they have for I don't want to. Yeah, the question is about the Asian crisis and how effects are coming like hope that recently announced at the earnings. Actually, they just announced their quarter earnings a few weeks ago. They took people off. They were going to be lower in the fourth quarter. So, well, basically, I love it, but because the market for Coca-Cola products is going to grow far faster over the next 20 years internationally than in the United States. It's going to be a tough period for, who knows, three months or three years, but it's going to be tough for 20 years. I mean, people are still going to, you know, they're going to work productively around the world and they're going to find that this is a bargain product in terms of the portion of their working day that they have to give up in order to have one of these or better yet final of the day. I got to, you know, this is a product in 1936 when I first bought six of those for a quarter and sold them for a nickel each. It was in a six and a half ounce bottle and you paid a two percent deposit. That was a six and a half ounce bottle and you paid a two percent deposit on the bottle. That was a six and a half ounce bottle for a nickel at that time. It's now a 12 ounce can, which if you buy it on weekends or if you buy it in bigger quantities, it's so much money that's a load of packaging. I mean, you essentially can buy the 12 ounces for not much more than 20 cents. So, you're paying not much more than twice the per ounce price of 1936. This product has gotten cheaper and cheaper and cheaper in relative to people's earning power over the years. And which people love. In 200 countries, you have a per capita use going up every year for products over a hundred years old. And the dominance, I mean, that is unbelievable. thing that people don't understand is one thing that makes this product, this work tens and tens of billions of dollars, this one simple fact about really all coals, but we'll call it Coca-Cola for the moment with any of my life, cola has no taste memory. You can drink one of these at night o'clock, at night o'clock, at night o'clock, I'll have my clock, I'll have my coffee, I'll have my new five o'clock, the one at five o'clock will taste just as good to you as the one you're going to drink away in the morning. You can't do that with cream soda, root beer, orange, great, you name it. All of those things accumulate on you, most foods and beverages accumulate on you can get sick of them after a while. And if you, if you eat, I mean, we get these people going to work for us and see his candy, and we don't know you don't know the candy they want. The first day they go crazy. But after a week, they're eating about the same month they need a, if they're buying it, because shock was cumulative, like I, everything accumulations. There is no taste memory to coal. And that means that you get people around the world that are heavy users that will drink five a day or die of coal, maybe seven or eight a day, or something, they'll never do that with other products. So you get this incredible per capita consumption. The average person in this part of the world, well, maybe look north a year, going to about 64 ounces of liquid a day. And you can have all 64 ounces of that big coke and you will not get fed up with coke if you like it to start with in the least But if you get almost anything else, you eat just one product all day, you get a little sick of that for a while and it's it's a huge factor. So that today over one billion eight ounce servings of Coca-Cola products will be sold in the world and that will grow year by year. It'll grow in every country virtually and it'll grow on a per capita basis and 20 years now, it'll go in a lot faster internationally than in the US. So I really like that market market better because there is more growth there over time But it will put them in the initial it is hurting them in the short term right now And but that that doesn't mean anything. I mean it Code call out public and I think it's 19 19 stocks all for $40 a share Went back before that as a candor family. They went back. They bought it for two thousand bucks The whole business as a candor back in the late 1880s and a couple of purchases So now it goes public in 19 19 $40 a share one year later selling for $19 going down 50% of one year And you might think that's some kind of disaster and you might think that and sugar prices increased and the dollars were rebellious and all much of that. You could always find a few reasons why that wasn't the ideal moment to buy it. Years later, you'd have seen the Great Depression, then you'd have seen World War II, and you've seen sugar rationing, and you've seen thermonuclear weapons and the whole thing. There's always a reason, but in the end, if you'd bought one share for $40 and reinvested the difference, it'd be worth about $5 million now. And that factor so overrides anything else, and if you're right about the business, you'll make a lot of money, and the timing part of it is a very tricky thing. So I don't worry about any given event if I've got a wonderful business, whether it does the next year, something that's going to start, you know, the price controls have been in this country in various times, and that's, that's followed up even the best of businesses. I mean, I wouldn't be able to raise a price on December 26th, so he's candy if we had a price control, so we've had him in this country, but that doesn't make it into a lousy business if that happens. It happens. You're not going to have a price control forever. We have him in the early 70s. So the wonderful business, you can figure out what will happen. You can't figure out what will happen. You don't want to focus too much on one. You want to focus on what. If you're right about what, you don't have to worry about one very much. The question is about my business besides, how much time do you have? Well, the interesting thing about the mistakes is that in investments, at least for me, and for my partner, Charlotte Munger, the biggest mistakes have not been mistakes of commission. They've been mistakes of omission. We knew enough about the business to do something, and for one reason or another, we said they're sucking our thumbs instead of doing something. And so we've passed up things where we could make billions and billions of dollars from things we understood, forget about things we don't understand. Back then, I could make billions out of Microsoft because I never understand Microsoft, but if I could make billions out of healthcare stocks, then I should make it, and I didn't, you know, when the Clinton healthcare program was proposed and I all went into the tank, we should have I made a ton of money out of that, because I can understand it. I didn't make a ton of money out of Fannie Mae back in the mid 80s, so that understood it. I didn't do it. Those are billion dollar mistakes or only billion dollar mistakes that generally stuff in accounting principles don't pick up. The mistakes you see, the mistakes you see, we made a... We, I made a mistake buying US air preferred some years ago. I mean, I had a lot of money around. I'm making mistakes when I get cash. It's hard to help me to go to a bar instead. I'm just going to hang around the office. But I hang around the office and I got money in my pocket because I'm dumb. And it happens every time. And so I bought this thing. Nobody made me buy it. I now have a 800 number I call every time I think about buying stock in the airline and they talk me down I say, you know, I say, I'm one, I'm an aerolic and then the guy says, you know, keep talking, don't hang up You know, don't do anything rash. Finally, I get over it. But I, but I got it, you know, and It looked like we were gonna lose all our money in that and we came very close to losing all our money And then we said we deserve lose all our money And we bought it because it was an attractive security, but it was not an attractive business I did the same thing with Solomon that that wasn't attractive security in the business That I wouldn't have bought the equity in so you can say that that's one form of mistake find something because you like the terms when you don't like the business that well. And I've done that in the past, I'll probably do it again. The bigger mistakes that were the ones of volumation, I did it back when I had the $10,000 months I put $2,000 of it into a singular service station which I lost. So my opportunity cost now is about $6 billion right now. There's a really big mistake. Yeah. It makes me feel that my pressure goes down and because the cost of my service station goes down too. My 20% opportunity cost. But I will say this. You talk about learning from mistakes. I really believe it's better learned from other people's mistakes than my success. But we don't spend any time looking back at Berkshire. I've got a partner, Charlie Mugger, who've been pals for 40 years. Never had an argument. I would disagree on things a lot, but we don't think my argument is about it. And we never look back. And we just figure there's so much to look forward to that there's just no sense thinking about what we might. It just doesn't make any difference. I mean, you can only live life forward. And you can learn something, perhaps, from the mistakes, but the big thing to do is stick with the businesses you understand. And so if there's a generic mistake of getting outside of your short-term competence and buying something to somebody tips you on it or something in an area you don't like about. I mean, that you should learn something from that, which is that you stay with what you can figure out yourself. I mean, you really want your decision making to be by looking in the mirror and saying yourself, I'm buying 100 shares of General Motors at 55 because, and I mean, it should be responsible if you're buying it, and it's got to be a reason. And it can't state the reason you shouldn't buy it, because somebody told you about it at a cocktail party, not good enough. There's just, it's got to be something, can't be because the volume of the chart looks good on it or anything like that. It's got to be a reason you'd buy the business. And that we stick to pretty carefully. That's one of the things that Ben Graham taught me. The question about what's going to happen to interest rates is where we're going to work. I don't think about the macro stuff. I just, importantly, what you really want to do in investments is figure out what's important and knowable. It was unimportant or unknowable. You forget about it. What you talk about is important, but in my view, it's not knowable. Understanding Coca-Cola is not knowable, or wrinkly, or Eastman-Code acronym. I mean, you can understand those business that's knowable. And whether it turns out to be important depends on where your valuation will lead you in the current price and all of that. But we have never either bought a business or not bought a business because of any macro feeling of any kind. We don't read things about predictions about interest rates or business or any like that because it doesn't make any difference. I mean, let's say in 1972 when we bought these candy, I think maybe Nixon put on the vice controls a little bit later. Let's say we've seen that. But so what? We missed the chance to buy something for $25 million, $60 million, pre-tax now. We don't want to pass up the chance to do something intelligent because of some prediction about something that we're no good at anyway. So we just don't, we don't read or listen to or do anything in relation to macro factors at all. The typical investment counseling organization goes out and they bring out their economists they try to about, he gives you this big macro picture and then they start working from there on down. And I'll be honest nonsense. If Alan Greenspan was on one side of me and Bob are on the other side, they're both whispering to my ear exactly what they're going to do the next whole month, wouldn't make any difference to me in what I pay for a executive jet, for a general reinsurance or anything else they do. Well, what's the benefit of being an out-of-towner as opposed to being in Wall Street? I worked in Wall Street for a couple of years and my best friends actually, on both coasts and I like seeing them and I get ideas when I go there, but the best way to get it to think about investments is to be in a room with no one else in just thinking. And if that doesn't work, nothing else is going to work. At the disadvantage of being in any kind of a market-type environment, and Wall Street would be the extremes that you get overstimulated, you think you have to do something every day. I mean, the Canberra family paid $2,000 for this company. You don't have to do much else if you have to pick one of those. And the trick is that it's not going to do anything else, even not to sell it in 1919, which the family did later on. So what you're looking for is some way to get one good idea a year, and then write it to its full potential. And that's very hard to do with an environment where people are shouting prices back and forth every five minutes reports under your nose and all that. Wall Street makes its money on activity. You make your money on inactivity. I mean, everybody in this room trades their portfolio around every day with every other person. You know, you're all going to end up broke and then the intermediary's going to end up below the money. And then if you're all on stocking a group of average businesses in just city over the next 50 years, you'll end up with a fair amount of money and your broker will be broke. So his activity is, he's like a doctor. He gets paid on half and gets you to change pills, I mean, basically. He gives you one pill and a cure to get the rest of your life and he's got one cell, one transaction, And that's it. But if he can convince you that changing pills every day is the way the great health It'll be great for him and the prescriptionists and you'll be out of money and you'll be any healthier a lot worse off And actually so you want to stay away from any environment that stimulates Activity and Wall Street would have the effect of doing that I would I use one of my mom I go back up once every six months and I go back a whole list of things I want to check out one way to the companies I want to see and I would get my money to work out of those trips But then I go back on one thing about it Yeah, well, like the question of the Berkshire Atheway, you guys went about evaluating Berkshire when it doesn't have any difference, and then the bullpainted difference, either it's a promise I can keep. The, all you get with Berkshire, you stick in your safe deposit box, and then every year you get on a fondle look. You know, you take it out and it's not worth it. Let me put it back. And I mean, there's an enormous psychic reward of that. You know, I don't understand it. But the real question is whether we can keep retaining dollar bills and turning them into more than a dollar, at a decent rate, and that's what we're trying to do, and Charlie Munger, I have our money, and it's to do that. That's all we'll get paid for doing. We won't take any options. like any seller is the big ever anything. We'll ride around in the plate. But that's what we're trying to do. It gets harder all the time. The more money we manage, the harder it is to do that. And we would do way better percentage-wise with Berkshire, if we won 100th the present size. But it is one for its owners. But it doesn't run to give them dividends because so far, every dollar that we've earned and gonna pay it out, we've turned into more than the dollar, this was more than the dollar to keep it. And that would be silly to pay it out. Even if everybody just half-screened and owned it. It would've been a mistake to pay dividends at Berkshire because so far the dollar bills retained have turned into more than the dollar. But there's no guarantee that that happens in the future, and at some point the game runs out on that. But it is the goal. I mean, that is what the business is about. We're nothing else about the business. We judge ourselves by it. We don't judge it by the size of its home office building or anything of the number of people working around it. We got 12 people with headquarters. We got 45,000 employees at Berkshire and 12 people with headquarters. 35-hours per fee. And they won't change it. So we will judge ourselves by the performance of the company. And that's the only way we'll get paid. But believe me, it's a lot harder than it used to be. That's been one of your investments that's reached the school potential, as you said earlier, that you, uh... I guess the last part of... Oh, reached the school potential. Well, ideally a buying business is where you feel that will never happen in terms of... I mean, I don't think... I don't buy cope with the idea that it's going to be out of gas in ten years, you know, or fifteen years. I mean, it could be something happened, but I would think the chances are that it's almost nil. So what we really want to do is buy businesses that we would be happy to own forever. It's the same way I feel about people buy Berkshire. I want people to buy Berkshire, to plan the whole forever. They may not for one reason or another. But I want them at the time they buy it, to think they are buying a business that they're going to own forever. And I don't say that's the only way to buy things. It's just that that's the group I want to have join me, because I don't want to have a changing group all the time. I measure a picture of how little activity there is in it. If I had a church, and I was the picture, and half the congregation left every Sunday, I wouldn't say, oh, this is marvelous, because I've always liquidity among my members. There's terrific turnover. I would rather get a church where all the seats are filled every Sunday by the same people. Well, that's the way we look at the businesses we buy. We want to buy something that we're really happy to own virtually forever. And we can't find a lot of those. started. I had way more ideas than money so I was just constantly having to sell what I thought was the least attractive stock in order to buy something that I just discovered that would be even cheaper, but that's not our problem really now. And so we hope we're buying businesses that we're just as happy with five years from now as now, and if we ever found some huge acquisition, you know, then we'd have to sell something, maybe to make that acquisition, but that would be a very pleasant problem to have. We never buy something with a price target in mind. We never buy something of $30, saying if it goes to $40 or $50 or $60 or $100, we just don't do it that way. any more than when we buy a private business like C's candy for 25 million, we don't say ourselves. But if you ever get an offer for 50 million for this business, we'd sell it. This is not the way to look at the business. We look at the businesses. Is this going to keep producing more and more and more money over time? And if the answer to that is yes, you don't need to ask any more questions. I don't even know what I'm talking about. Well, it's all up and like I said, I went into that because it was a 9% security in 1987, September 1987. The dollar was up 35% that year. We sold a lot of stuff and I had a lot of money around it. It looked at me like we were never going to get a chance to do anything. So I took an attractive security form in a business I would never buy the common stock of. And I went in because of that, and I think that's generally a mistake. It worked out okay finally on that, but it's not what I should have been doing. I either should have waited in which case I could have one more coca-cola year later. There are about, so I should have been one coca-cola at the prices that was selling out then even though it was selling a pretty good price at the time. So that was the mistake. I'm long-term capital. That's, we have learned other businesses that are associated with securities over the years. And I mean, one of them is arbitrage. I've done arbitrage for 45 years and granted it for probably 30 years before that. That's a business I'm fortunate to have to be near a phone for. and I have to really run out of the office myself because it requires being more sort of market of tune. And I don't want to do that anymore. So unless a really big arbitrage situation came along that I understood I will be doing much of that. But I've probably been in 300 arbitrage situations at least in my life, maybe more. And it was a good business, a perfectly good business. Long-term capital has a bunch of positions. They got tons of positions, but the top 10 are probably 90% of the money that's at risk. And I know something about those 10 positions. There's a few other positions we have that aren't that big because they can't get that big, but they can involve yield curve relationships or on the run-off-the-run governments or things like that, there are just things you'll learn over time if you're out of securities markets. They're not the base of our business. Probably on average, they've accounted for a half of a percentage point of our return a year, in our three quarters of a percentage point a year of our return. The little pluses that you get for actually having just been around a long time and learning a little bit about first arbitrage, that first arbitrage. They did the one of the first arbitrage. They did involve the company where you, they were offering cocoa beans in exchange for their stock. That was in 1955. And I bought the stock, turned to the stock, got warehouse certificates for cocoa beans and they had to be a different type. They were trading their cocoa exchange, There was a basis differential, my favorite, my soldem. I mean, that's just something that I was around at the time, so I learned about hasn't my cocoa bean deal since? Yeah. 40 ideas. I've been waiting for another cocoa bean deal. I haven't seen it, but it's there in my memory if it ever comes along. And that long-term capital is that on a big scale. Yep. It's about diversification. And I've got a dual answer to that. If you are not a professional investor, if your goal is not to manage money in such a way as to get a significantly better return than the world, then I believe in extreme diversification. I mean, if it's, so I believe 98 or 99% maybe more than 99% of people will invest you shouldn't extensively diversify and not trade. So it leads them to an index fund type of decision with very low cost, because all they're going to do is own a part of America. And they made a decision and only part of America's work. Well, I don't call it without at all. That is the way they should approach it. Unless they want to bring an intensity to the game to make a decision and start evaluating businesses. But once you're in the business of evaluating businesses, and you decide that you are going to bring the effort intensity and time involved to get that job done, then I think that diversification is a terrible mistake in any decree. And I got to ask the question why is it the other day, and if you really know businesses, you probably shouldn't know more than six-seven. I mean, if you've been to identify six wonderful businesses, that is all the diversification you need. And you're going to make a lot of money, and I will guarantee you that going into a seventh one is going to, rather than putting more money in your first one, it's got to be a terrible mistake. Very few people have gotten rich on their seventh best idea, but a lot of people have gotten rich on their best idea, so I would say that for anybody working with normal capital who really knows the businesses that they're going into, my sixth is funny, and I tell you, half of it in what I like best. I don't diversify personally. I mean, and all the people I know that have done well with the subject of what we mentioned water slosh air and the water diversifies a lot. He owns a bit of everything. I call him Noah. You know, he's got two of everything. Well, Dr. Gamble is a very, very good, strong distribution capability, lots of brand names, everything. But if you ask me, I'm going to go away for 20 years and put all my families in that work in one business, but I don't have Dr. Gamble or actually Dr. Gamble is a little more diversified in one product line, but I would feel sure of co-op in Dr. Gamble. I wouldn't be unhappy if somebody told me I had Dr. Gamble during that 20 year period. I mean, that would be in my top 5% because they are not going to get killed, but I would feel better about the unit growth and the pricing power of a Coke over 20 or 30 years than I would about a proctored gamble. Right now, the pricing power might be tough, but you think a million servings a day, extra penny, $10 million a day. We own 8% of it. That's $800,000 a day for Berkshire Hathaway. Get another penny out of the stuff. Doesn't seem impossible, doesn't. I mean, it's worth another penny, but it doesn't. Right now, if you have a stake trying to get it in most markets, but over time, Coke will make more preserving than it does now. 20 years now, I'll guarantee you that I'm going to be signing a whole lot more surveys. I don't know how many, I don't know how much more, but I know that. PNG's main products, I don't really have the kind of dominance. And they don't have the kind of unit growth, but they're good businesses. I would not be unhappy if you told me that I had to put my family's net worth in PNG, and that was the only stock I could own. I might prefer some other names, but there aren't a hundred other names I would prefer. One year's on that. The question's about McDonald's. I'm going away for 20 years. McDonald's has got a lot of things going for it, and particularly abroad again. I mean, their position abroad in many countries is stronger, relatively than here. It's a tougher business over time. People do not want to eat an exception of the kids when they're giving my baby back to their son. People do not want to eat at McDonald's every day. I mean, if people are drinking Coke today, they drink five of them, they don't probably drink five tomorrow. The fast food business is tougher than that. But if you had to pick one hand to have in the fast food business, which is going to be a huge business world wide, you'd pick McDonald's. I mean, it has the strongest position. It doesn't win taste tests with adults. It doesn't very well with children. And it does fine with adults. But it's not like it's a clear winner. And it's gotten into the game in recent years of being more price promotional and you know, you remember the experiment a year ago or so and So it's that more dependent on that rather than just selling the product by sell. I like the product by itself sells I feel better about Gillette If people buy the mark-free because they like the mark-free than if they get a beanie baby with it, you know I mean Yeah, so I just think it's fundamentally a stronger product if that's the case and and you know, it probably is well We own a lot of Gillette and and You can sleep pretty well at night if you think of a couple billion men with their hair growing in their face you go to, you know, they're going all night while you sleep, you know, women have two legs, I guess even better. So it's a, it's a, it's these kind of sheep. And those are kind of the, what do you think? And what promotion am I going to put out there? It's Burger King next month. Well, you know, and what if they sign up Disney and I don't get Disney? And I mean, that is, I like the, I like the products that stand alone at absent promotion or price appeals, although you can build a very good business based on that. And then the dollars are terrific business. It's not as good as businesses. It's cold, but that, you know, they're really hurting any, it's a very good business. And if you bet on one company, that feels like of course, we want Jerry Quinn here a while back, that's why it's shamelessly here. Yeah, way back there. What do I think of what? Do you like your utility industry? Well, I thought about that a lot because you can put big money in it. And I've even thought of buying the entire business as there's a fellow normal, actually that's been a little bit through Cal energy. But I don't quite understand the game in terms of how it's going to develop with the regulation. I mean, I can see how it destroys a lot of value for the high cost producer And once they're not protected by a monopoly territory and I don't for sure say how who benefits and how much I mean obviously the guy was very well cost power some guys got hydro power You know with two cents a kilowatt or something like that It's not a huge advantage But how much of that he's going to get to keep and everything there how Extensively he can he can send that outside his natural territory I haven't been able to figure that out with it So that I really think I know what the industry is going to look like in 10 years But it is something I think about it and if I ever develop any insights You know the call for action. I'll go about you know I will act on it Because I think I can understand the attractiveness of the product and all that, all the aspects of certainly of user need and the fact that it's a bargain and all of that, I understand. I just don't understand who's going to make the money in 10 years from now. And that keeps me away. The question is, large caps are small caps and large caps over the point. I don't know the answer to that. We don't think, we don't care whether it's companies, large caps, giant caps, middle caps, small caps, micro caps, it doesn't make any difference. The only question is, can we understand the business? Do we like to think we're running it, and does it sell for a price that is attractive? From my personal standpoint, running Berkshire now, because we've got full form of for January, or what we have, maybe $75 or $80 billion to invest in, and we want to invest in about five things. So I'm really limited to very big companies. But if I were investing $100,000, I wouldn't care whether something was large cap or small cap or anything. I would just look for businesses I understood. Now, I think that on balance, large cap companies has businesses that have done extraordinary well last year. There's a way better than people anticipated that would do. I mean, you really have American business earning close to 20% on equity, and that's something nobody dreamed of. And that's being produced by very large companies and aggregates. you had this huge evaluation upward because the lower interest rates, and then much higher returns on capital. If American business is really a bond, the sky's bond earns 20 percent. It has a 5 percent coupon. It's much better than the bond with a 13 percent coupon. And that's happened with big companies in recent years, whether it's a problem or not, it's another question. I'm skeptical of that. But I wouldn't even think about, except for questions of how much money we want. I wouldn't even think about the size of the business. a good small C-scanney was a 25 million dollar business money body and I could find one just like it now even because we are you know I'm up to buy it just it's a certainty of it that that that counts yeah we're over there yeah you know my they've been securitization normal securitization of of of of the debt to a real estate and that is one of the items right now that is really clogging up the capital markets. I mean, the mortgage-backed securities are just not moving in commercial mortgage-backed, not residential mortgage-backed. But I think you're directing your question at equities, probably. And if you leave out, the corporate form has been a lousy way to own equities. I mean, you've interjected at a corporate income tax into something that people individually have been able to own with a single tax, and by having the normal corporate form, you've got a double taxation in there, you really don't need with a mistake, and it takes away too much of the return. Leads have, in effect, created a conduit so that you don't get the double taxation, but they also generally have fairly high operating expenses. And if you get real estate, let's just say you can buy fairly simple types of real estate on an 8% yield or thereabouts. And you take away maybe close to one or one or maybe even one and a half percent by that become stock options and everything. It's not a terribly attractive way going. It may be the only way a guy with a thousand bucks or five thousand bucks can own it. But if you have a million dollars or 10 million dollars, you're better off owning a real estate properties yourself and sticking some intermediary in between that will get a sizable piece of the return for himself. So, but generally speaking, We've seen very, very little in that field that gets us excited. People are very confused about, they'll look at some huge land company. I'll take one that won't evoke any emotional reactions on the part of anybody. Like Texas Pacific Land Trust, which has been around over 100 years, and got a couple million acres in Texas. And they'll take the one percent land every year, and they'll take that as applying everything and come up with some huge value compared to the market value. But that's nonsense if you're really on the property. You can't move. You can't move 50% of properties or 20% of the properties. It's way worse than I know, like with stock. So you get these, I think you get some very silly valuations placed on a lot of real estate companies by people that don't really understand what it's like to own one and try to move large quantities of property. It reads at the age terribly of the market this year, as you know, and it's not at all inconceivable they would become a class that would get so unpopular that they would sell a significant discount from which it's all the properties for. And they could, they could get interesting as a class then and then the question is whether the management would fight you in that process because they would be giving up their income stream for managing things and they're in this microencounter to the shareholders on that. I've always wondered about the REITs and say, you know, our assets are so wonderful and they're so cheap and then they got so stuck. I mean, there's a contradiction to that. If they say our stock at 28 is very cheap and then they sell a lot of stock at 28 plus an underwriting commission. You know, they're either, there's a disconnect there and so, but it's a feel we look at. I mean, Charlie and I can understand real estate and we would be open for very good transactions periodically. If there was a long-term capital management situation and translated to real estate, you know, we would be open to that. A couple of so many other people would be too. Then it would be unlikely to go to a price that would really get us excited. Way back there. I don't understand your theory that, uh, sort of, uh, down market is good for net saver. Before you get involved with the way the market is going, it's down with credit. It's going to go over a month and a month and a month and a month and a month and a month. Yeah. I've got no idea where the market's going to go. I prefer it going down, but I haven't. Yeah. My preferences have nothing to do with it. The market knows nothing about my feelings. Yeah. That's one of the first things you have to learn with the stock. You buy 100 shares in general and now all of a sudden you have this feeling about general waters I mean it goes down you may be mad at it and may say well Just go up to what I paid for it You know my life will be wonderful again or if it goes up you may say I'll smart you were in you in general waters I just love the fair to me. Give there all these feelings stock doesn't only own it. So it doesn't care what you pay It doesn't care that you own the dirty so any feeling I have about the market is not reciprocated I mean it is the old of it. Yeah, yeah, it is very cold shoulder. We're talking about here and Anybody that's going to be an asset or everybody in this room is more likely to be a net buyer of stocks over the next 10 years And they are in a seller so every one of you should prefer lower prices I mean, you're going to be a net eater of hamburger in the next 10 years. You want hamburger to get out unless you're a kettle caliper this year. And if you're going to be a buyer of Coca-Cola, and you don't own Coke stock, you'll hope the price of Coke goes down. I mean, you're looking forward to be on sale this weekend at your supermarket, and you want to be down on the weekends, not up on the weekends when you're going to spend the supermarket. Your stock exchange is a big supermarket of companies, and you're going to be buying stocks. What do you want to have to happen? You want the stock to go down, way down, and you know, you will make better buys then. And later on, 20 years now, 30 years now, and you're in a period when you're just saving or when your air is just saved for you. I mean, then you may care about higher prices, but I find people that was one of the, as a chapter 8 and then grams intelligent investor about the attitude of stock market fluctuation. That in the chapter 20 on the margin of safety is the two most important essays ever written on investing as far as I'm concerned, because while I read chapter 8, when I was 19, I figured out what I just figured out what I just said, but it was obvious. I didn't figure out myself. It was explained to me. I probably got another hundred years, but I still thought I was good with my stock for going out. We want things to go down, but I have no idea what the stock market is going to do. I never do. Never will. That's something that I think about it all. When it goes down, I feel I look harder, but I might buy that day, because I know there's more likely to be some merchandise there, so that I can use my money effectively in that. Okay. I'm going to take one more question from the audience. Okay. I'll let you pack who gets it. You'll get me to go out. Yeah. I would say that, and this is going to sound disgusting. What would I do if I were going to live over again and have a happier life? Well, I think I might do a selective gene pool where people live to be 120 or something that I came from. I've been extraordinarily lucky. I use this example, I'll take a minute or two because I think it's worth thinking about a little bit. Let's just assume that it was 24 hours before you were born. He came to you and he said, he said her, uh, you look very promising and I've got a big problem. I've got to design the world in which you're going to live and he said, I decided that whether it's too tough, you would design it. So you've got 24 hours, you figure out what the social rule should be, the economic rules, uh, the governmental rules and you're going to live under those and your kids are going to live under, their kids are going to live under. And you say, I can design anything. And Jenny said, yeah, you can look. You say, well, there must be a catch. He says, well, there's a catch. You don't know whether you're going to be born black or white, rich or poor, male or female, infirm or able-bodied, brighter, retarded. All you know is you're going to take one ball out of a barrel that's got 5.8 billion. You're going to participate in what I call the Ovarian moderate. You're going to get one ball out of there. And that is the most important thing that we're going to have in your life. Because that is going to control whether you're born here in Afghanistan or whether you're born with IQ 130 or an IQ 70. It's going to determine a whole lot. And you're going to go out of the world and you're going to have that ball. What kind of a world you want to design? Well, I think that's a good way to look at social questions because Not knowing which ball you're going to get. You're going to want to ball, you're going to want to system, design a system that's going to produce lots of goods and services, because you're going to want people on balance to live well. And you're going to want it to produce more and more, so your kids will live better than you're doing your grandchildren better than the kids, but you're also going to want a system that if it does produce lots of goods and services, does not leave behind a person accidently got their own ball and is not well wired for this particular system. I'm ideally wired for the system I fell into here. I mean, I came out and I got something that enables me to allocate capital. You know, nothing so wonderful about that. If all of us were stranded on a desert island, But the most valuable person will be the one to raise the most rice, you know, over time. And then, you know, I can say, well, I'm an allocate cap, but I'm not being meal. And you will get very excited about that. So I am in the right place. I mean, but the gate says, if I've been born in a few minutes ago, I do some animal lunch. And I say, you can't run very fast, you can't climb trees. You can't do anything. You've just been, you know, just been shoot up in the first day. So he said, you're lucky. You were born today. And I am. But the question, getting back, the one question you can ask yourself, incidentally, is, here is this barrel with 5.8 billion balls, everybody in the world. If you could put your ball back. And then they took out a random 100 other balls and you had to pick one of those would you put your ball back in? Now those hundred balls that you're going to get out roughly five of them will be American. So it's 95 versus five. So the only guy five balls. You want to be in a country or you're only in five balls. Now that half of them are going to be one and a half of them are going to be men. I'll let you all decide how you vote on that one. Half of them are going to be ball average intelligence half of them are going to be above. You want to put your ball back? Most of me I think we'll not want to put that ball back to get 100. So what you're saying is I'm in the luckiest 1% of the world right now. right now sitting in this room, top 1% of the world. Well, that's the way I feel. I mean, I've been lucky to be born where I was because it was 50 to one against me in the United States when I was born. Lucky with parents, lucky with all kinds of things and they're lucky to be wired in a way that in a market economy pays off like crazy. For me, it doesn't pay off for somebody that's absolutely as good as the citizens I am. You know, leading Boy Scout troops, teaching Sunday school, whatever, raising fine families, but it just doesn't happen to be wired in the same way I am. So, I've been extremely lucky, so I would like to be lucky again. And if I'm lucky, then the way to do it is to play out that game and do something you enjoy something you enjoy, you know, all your life, and be associated with people you like. I only work with people I like. I don't, I don't, if I could make it $100 million by buying a business with some guy to cause my stomach to churn, I'd say no, because I'd say that's just like marrying for money, which probably is a very good idea and any circumstances, but it's very rich, it's crazy, right? I am not going to marry for money. So I would do, I would, I would really do almost exactly what I've done except I don't We got to buy the US Air. Thanks.
