Timestamp: 2026-05-08T21:51:26.757594
Title: CyrilXBT - Andrew Ng just taught the entire mathematical foundation of machine l... 2052606922193322336
URL: https://x.com/cyrilXBT/status/2052606922193322336?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 1:19:34

Description:
这是一份针对吴恩达（Andrew Ng）斯坦福 CS229 课程中关于局部加权回归、逻辑回归及其概率解释、以及牛顿法讲座内容的深度解析与批判。

---

### **PART 1. 作者逻辑图谱 (Author's Map)**

**1. 核心主张 (Core Thesis)**
监督学习算法的设计并非随机选择，而是可以通过概率假设（如高斯噪声、伯努利分布）利用最大似然估计（MLE）推导而来；同时，针对非线性数据和优化速度，需要引入非参数化方法（局部加权回归）和高级优化算法（牛顿法）。

**2. 证据基础 (Evidentiary Base)**
*   **数学推导**：从高斯分布概率密度函数推导出线性回归的平方误差损失函数。
*   **算法对比**：对比参数化（线性回归）与非参数化（局部加权回归）在处理非线性数据时的表现。
*   **逻辑函数**：引入 Sigmoid 函数将实数映射到 $(0,1)$ 区间，解决分类问题的输出范围问题。
*   **计算复杂度**：通过 Hessian 矩阵的倒数解释牛顿法在收敛速度与计算成本之间的权衡。

**3. 逻辑授权 (Logical Warrant)**
*   **概率推理**：如果假设误差服从 IID 高斯分布，那么最小化平方和等价于最大化似然概率。
*   **类比推理**：既然线性回归可以通过 MLE 推导，那么分类问题也可以通过假设伯努利分布并使用 MLE 推导出逻辑回归。
*   **二阶近似**：牛顿法利用函数表面的二阶导数信息（曲率）来寻找零点，比仅利用一阶导数的梯度下降更快。

**4. 明确界限 (Stated Scope)**
*   **局部加权回归 (LWR)**：适用于特征维度 $n$ 较小但数据量相对充足，且不想手动筛选特征的场景。
*   **牛顿法**：适用于特征维度 $n$ 不太大的情况（通常小于一万），因为需要计算 Hessian 矩阵的逆。
*   **逻辑回归**：限定在二分类问题（Binary Classification）。

**5. 隐含对手 (Implicit Opponent)**
*   **启发式建模者**：那些仅仅因为“习惯”或“直觉”而选择平方误差作为损失函数，却不理解其背后概率假设的人。
*   **刚性线性模型**：认为只能通过增加特征项（如 $x^2$）来拟合非线性数据的传统观点。

**6. 预期效果 (Intended Takeaway)**
学生应理解损失函数的数学起源，掌握如何将回归模型扩展到分类模型，并能根据计算资源选择合适的优化算法（梯度下降 vs 牛顿法）。

---

### **PART 2. 严厉且客观的审查 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair REVIEW)**

**1. 强力辩护 (Steelman)**
该讲座建立了一个极其优雅的统一框架：它证明了监督学习不是一堆零散算法的集合，而是概率论在不同分布假设下的必然产物。通过证明最小二乘法是 MLE 的特例，它为机器学习的科学性奠定了坚实基础，使学习者能够从底层逻辑出发构建新算法。

**2. 最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link)**
> "Assume that $\epsilon^{(i)}$ are IID (Independently and Identically Distributed) Gaussian."

这是整个线性回归概率解释的支柱。然而，在现实世界（如房价预测）中，误差往往具有**异方差性**（高价房的误差波动通常大于低价房）或**空间自相关性**。如果 IID 高斯假设不成立，那么最小二乘法就不再是最大似然估计，其统计有效性（Efficiency）将大幅下降。作者对此假设的脆弱性讨论不足。

**3. 证据审计 (Evidence Audit)**
*   **局部加权回归的局限**：作者提到 LWR 解决了特征选择的麻烦，但忽略了**维度灾难**。在高维空间中，“最近邻”的概念会失效，所有点之间的距离都趋于相等，LWR 的预测性能会急剧崩溃。
*   **牛顿法的内存瓶颈**：作者提到 Hessian 矩阵求逆在高维下很慢，但未明确指出其空间复杂度是 $O(n^2)$。对于现代深度学习动辄百万级的参数，牛顿法不仅是“慢”，而是根本无法在内存中存储。

**4. 隐藏前提 (Hidden Premises)**
*   **似然性至上**：论证假设了“最大似然估计”是寻找参数的最佳标准，这完全排除了贝叶斯学派的观点（即参数本身也可能有先验分布）。
*   **平滑性假设**：牛顿法要求目标函数是二阶可微且 Hessian 矩阵正定。在非凸优化中，牛顿法极易陷入鞍点或局部最大值，讲座中对逻辑回归凹性的论证在更复杂的模型中并不通用。

**5. 盲点视角 (The Blind Side)**
*   **外推失效**：局部加权回归本质上是插值。对于超出训练数据范围的 $x$，LWR 的表现极差且不可预测，而全局参数模型至少能提供趋势外推。
*   **计算成本的隐瞒**：LWR 在每次预测时都需要遍历整个数据集。在实时系统中，这种“懒惰学习”的延迟成本往往是不可接受的，作者将其简称为“内存开销”，掩盖了响应时间的问题。

**6. 致命一击 (One Hit Kill)**
如果数据特征之间存在**多重共线性**（Multicollinearity），牛顿法所需的 Hessian 矩阵将是奇异的（不可逆），算法会立即崩溃。在没有正则化（Regularization）的情况下，讲座中推荐的原始牛顿法在真实的高维噪声数据中几乎无法直接运行。

**7. 判定标准 (What Would Settle It)**
进行一项对比测试：在特征维度 $n > 10,000$ 且噪声不符合正态分布的数据集上，对比牛顿法与随机梯度下降（SGD）的收敛速度，以及 LWR 与带有正则化的多项式回归的预测精度。这将证明讲座中的高级算法在现代大数据环境下的局限性。

---

### **PART 3. 核心概念逻辑图 (Mermaid Diagram)**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    subgraph SG_Core["💎 核心目标：从线性回归到分类与优化"]
        A["<b>监督学习深度解析</b><br/>从概率假设推导算法本质"]
        style A fill:#FFD700,stroke:#DAA520,stroke-width:3px,color:#000,font-weight:bold
    end

    subgraph SG_Regression["📈 回归的进化"]
        B1["<b>线性回归 (Linear Regression)</b><br/>参数化：固定 $\theta$"]
        B2["<b>局部加权回归 (LWR)</b><br/>非参数化：随数据增长"]
        
        B1 -- "痛点: 无法拟合非线性" --> B2
        B2 -- "机制" --> B2a["核函数权重 $w_i$"]
        B2a -- "特性" --> B2b["只关注预测点附近的样本"]
        B2 -- "代价" --> B2c["计算成本 $O(m)$ 每预测一次"]
        
        style B1 fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#1565C0,stroke-width:2px,color:#0D47A1
        style B2 fill:#BBDEFB,stroke:#1565C0,stroke-width:2px,color:#0D47A1
    end

    subgraph SG_Prob["🎲 概率解释 (The 'Why')"]
        P1["<b>假设: 误差 $\epsilon \sim \mathcal{N}(0, \sigma^2)$</b>"]
        P2["<b>最大似然估计 (MLE)</b>"]
        P3["<b>最小二乘法 (Least Squares)</b>"]
        
        P1 -- "推导" --> P2
        P2 -- "等价于" --> P3
        style P1 fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#7B1FA2,stroke-width:2px,color:#4A148C
        style P2 fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#7B1FA2,stroke-width:2px,color:#4A148C
        style P3 fill:#CE93D8,stroke:#7B1FA2,stroke-width:2px,color:#4A148C
    end

    subgraph SG_Classification["🎯 分类：逻辑回归"]
        C1["<b>问题: $y \in \{0,1\}$</b>"]
        C2["<b>Sigmoid 函数 $g(z)$</b>"]
        C3["<b>伯努利分布假设</b>"]
        C4["<b>梯度上升更新</b>"]
        
        C1 -- "线性回归不适用" --> C2
        C2 -- "映射到 (0,1)" --> C3
        C3 -- "通过 MLE 推导" --> C4
        style C1 fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20
        style C2 fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20
        style C3 fill:#C8E6C9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20
        style C4 fill:#A5D6A7,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20
    end

    subgraph SG_Optimization["⚡ 优化算法：牛顿法"]
        O1["<b>目标: $f(\theta) = 0$ (求导数为0处)</b>"]
        O2["<b>更新规则: $\theta - H^{-1} \nabla \ell$</b>"]
        O3["<b>优点: 二阶收敛，极快</b>"]
        O4["<b>缺点: $H$ 矩阵求逆开销巨大</b>"]
        
        O1 --> O2
        O2 --> O3 & O4
        style O1 fill:#FFF3E0,stroke:#E65100,stroke-width:2px,color:#4E342E
        style O2 fill:#FFE0B2,stroke:#E65100,stroke-width:2px,color:#4E342E
        style O3 fill:#FFCC80,stroke:#E65100,stroke-width:2px,color:#4E342E
        style O4 fill:#FFB74D,stroke:#E65100,stroke-width:2px,color:#4E342E
    end

    subgraph SG_Critique["🚩 批判性审视 (Hostile Review)"]
        R1["<b>致命假设: IID 高斯噪声</b><br/>(现实中常失效)"]
        R2["<b>维度灾难: LWR 高维无意义</b>"]
        R3["<b>共线性危机: Hessian 矩阵不可逆</b>"]
        
        style R1 fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#C62828,stroke-width:2px,color:#B71C1C
        style R2 fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#C62828,stroke-width:2px,color:#B71C1C
        style R3 fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#C62828,stroke-width:2px,color:#B71C1C
    end

    A --> B1
    A --> SG_Prob
    SG_Prob -- "方法论扩展" --> SG_Classification
    SG_Classification -- "寻找更优解" --> SG_Optimization
    
    P1 -. "质疑" .-> R1
    B2 -. "质疑" .-> R2
    O2 -. "质疑" .-> R3

    %% Background Styles
    style SG_Regression fill:#E3F2FD,stroke:#1565C0,stroke-width:1.5px
    style SG_Prob fill:#F3E5F5,stroke:#7B1FA2,stroke-width:1.5px
    style SG_Classification fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:1.5px
    style SG_Optimization fill:#FFF3E0,stroke:#E65100,stroke-width:1.5px
    style SG_Critique fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#EF5350,stroke-width:2.5px
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
What I'd like to do today is continue our discussion of supervised learning. So last Wednesday, you saw the linear regression algorithm, including both gradient descent, how it's fully the problem, then gradient descent, and then the normal equations. What I'd like to do today is talk about locally weighted regression, which is a way to modify linear regression to make it fit very non-linear functions, so you're on just face straight lines. And then we'll talk about probabilistic interpretation of linear regression, and that will lead us into the first classification algorithm you see in this class called logistic regression. And we'll talk about an algorithm called Newton's method for logistic regression. And so the dependency of ideas in this class is that locally weighted regression will depend on what you learned in linear regression. And then we're actually going to just cover the key ideas of locally weighted regression and let you play some of the ideas yourself in the problem set one, which we released later this week. And then I guess give a promising interpretation of linear regression, logistic regression depends on that. And new test method is for logistic regression. So recap the notation you saw on Wednesday. We used this notation, xi, yi, to denote a single training example, where xi was n plus 1 dimensional. So if you had two features, the size of the house and the number of bedrooms, then xi would be 2 plus 1, would be 3 dimensional, because we had introduced a new sort of fake feature, x0, which was always set to the value of 1. And the yi, in the case of regression, is always a row number. And what's the number of training examples and what's the number of features? And this was the hypothesis, right? It's a linear function of the features x, including this feature x0, which is always set to 1. And j was the cost function you would minimize. You minimize this as a function of j to find the parameter's data for your straight line fit to the data, OK? So that's what you saw last Wednesday. Now, if you have a data set that looks like that, where this is the size of a house, and this is the price of a house, what you saw on Wednesday, lost Wednesday, was an algorithm to fit a straight line to this data. So the hypothesis was of the form theta 0 plus theta 1x or theta 1x1, right, same thing. But with this data set, maybe it actually looks, you know, maybe the data looks a little bit like that. And so one question that you have to address when fitting models to the data is, what are the features you want? Do you want to fit a straight line to this problem? Or do you want to fit a hypothesis of the form theta 1x plus theta 2x squared? Since this may be a quadratic function, right? Now, the problem of quadratic function is that quadratic function eventually start curving back down, or that would be a quadratic function. This starts curving back down. So maybe you don't want to fit a quadratic function. Instead, maybe you want to fit something like that. If housing prices sort of curve down out a little bit, but you don't want it to eventually curve back down, the way a quadratic function would. So if you want to do this, the way you would implement this is you define the first feature x1 equals x. And the second feature, x2 equals x squared. Or you define x1 to be equal to x and x2 equals square root of x. And by defining a new feature, x2, which can be the square of x, the square of x, then the machinery that you saw from Wednesday of linear regression applies to fit these types of functions, the data. So later this quarter, you're here about feature selection algorithms, which is a type of algorithm for automatically deciding, do you want x squared as a feature, or square root of x as a feature, or maybe you want a longer of x as a feature, right? But what sort of features does the best job fitting the data that you have? If it's not fit well by a perfectly straight line? What I'd like to do today is, so you hear about feature selection later this quarter. What I wanna share with you today is a different way of addressing this problem of what if the data isn't just fit well by a straight line, And in particular, I want to share you an idea called locally weighted regression or locally weighted linear regression. So let me use a slightly different example to illustrate this, which is that if you have a data set, that looks like that. So it's pretty clear what the shape of this data is, but how do you fit a curve that kind of looks like that? And it's actually quite difficult to find features. is it square root of X, log of X, XQ, like third root of X, X of pop, two thirds, but what is the set of features that let's you do this? So we'll sidestep all those problems in an algorithm called a locally weighted regression. And to introduce a bit more machine learning terminology, in machine learning, we sometimes distinguish between parametric learning algorithms and non-parametric learning algorithms. But in a parametric learning algorithm, there's a, you fit some fixed set of parameters, such as data i to data. And so linear regression, as you saw at last Wednesday, is a parametric learning algorithm. Because there's a fixed set of parameters, the data i, so you fit the data, and then you're done, right? Locally way to regression will be our first exposure to a non-parametric learning algorithm. And what that means is that the amount of data slash parameters you need to keep grows. And in this case, it grows linearly with the size of the data, with the size of the training set. So with a parametric learning algorithm, no matter how big your training set is, you fit the parameter state of I, then you could erase the training set from your computer memory make predictions, just using the parameters data I. In a non-parametric learning algorithm, which we'll see in a second, the amount of stuff you need to keep around and compute a memory on stuff you need to store around, grows linearly as a function of the trading set size. And so this type of algorithm may not be great if you have a really, really massive data set because you need to keep all of the data around, in computer memory or on disk, just to make predictions. But we'll see an example of this. And one of the effects of this is that we'll be able to fit that data that I drew up there quite well without you needing to fiddle manually with features. Again, you get to practice implementing locally way to regression the homework. So I'm going to go over the high level ideas relatively quickly and then let you gain practice in the problem set. All right, so let me redraw that data set. I mean, something like this. So say you have a data set like this. Now, for linear regression, if you want to evaluate at a certain value of the input, so to make a prediction at a certain value of x, for linear regression, what you do is you fit theta to minimize this cost function and then you return theta transpose x. So for the straight line, and then you want to make a prediction at this value x, you then return, say, the transpose x. For locally weighted regression, you do something slightly different, which is this is the value of x that you want to make a prediction around that value of x. What you do is you look at a little local neighborhood at the training examples close to that point x we want to make a prediction. And then I'll describe this informally for now, but we'll formalize this in half in a second. But focusing mainly on these examples, and looking a little bit at further examples, but really focusing mainly on these examples, you try to fit a straight line like that, focusing on the training examples that are close to where you want to make a prediction. And by close, I mean, the values are similar on the x-axis. The x-values are similar. And then to actually make a prediction, you will use this green line that you just fit to make a prediction at that value of x. Now, if you want to make a prediction at a different point, let's say that the user now says, hey, make a prediction for this point. Then what you would do is focus on this local area, kind of look at those points. And when I say focus, say put most of the weight on these points, but you kind of take a glance at the points further away, but most of the attention is on these. for the straight line to that, and then you use that straight line to make a prediction. And so to formalize this, in locally weighted regression, you will fit theta to minimize a modified class function, where wi is a weight function. And so a good, well, the default choice, a common choice of wi will be this. I'm going to add something to this equation a little bit later. But w i is a weighting function where notice that this formula has defining property. If xi minus x is small, then the weight will be close to 1. Because if xi and x, so x is the location where you want to make a prediction. And x i is the input x for your i-training example. So w i is a waiting function that's a value between 0 and 1 that tells you how much should you pay attention to the values of x i comma y i when fitting, say, this green line or that red line. And so if x i minus x is small, so if that's a training example, that is close to where you want to make the prediction for x. Then this is about e to the 0, right? e to the negative 0, if the numerator is small. And e to the 0 is close to 1, right? And conversely, if xi minus x is large, then wi is close to 0. And so if xi is very far away, so let's see if I think this green line. And this is your example, xi yi. then is saying, give this example all the way out there. If you're fitting the green line, right? Look at this first x. Saying that example should have a weight very close to 0. OK? And so if you look at the cost function, the main modification to the cost function with me is that we've added this weighting term. And so what locally weighted regression does is the same. If an example xi is far from where you want to make a prediction, multiply that error term by 0, or by a constant very close to 0. Whereas if it's close to where you want to make a prediction, multiply that error term by 1. And so the net effect of this is that the terms multiplied by 0 disappear. So the net effect of this is that the sums over essentially only the terms for the squared error. For the examples that close to the value of x what you want to make a prediction, OK? And that's why when you fit theta to minimize this, you end up paying attention only to the point, only to the examples close to where you want to make a prediction and fitting a line, like the green line over there, OK? So let me draw a couple more pictures to illustrate this. So if let me draw a slightly smaller dataset, just to make this easier to illustrate. So that's your training set. So that's your example. 6.1 makes 2x3x4. And if you want to make a prediction here, at that point, x, then this curve here looks the shape of this curve is actually like this. And this is the shape of a Gaussian bell curve, but this is nothing to do with a Gaussian density, right? So this thing does not integrate the one. And so sometimes you don't want to say, well, this is using a Gaussian density. The answer is no. This is just a function that is shaped a lot like a Gaussian, but Gaussian density is probably density functions have to integrate the one and this is not. So there's nothing to do with a Gaussian probability density. Question? Oh, so how do you choose it? Well, let me get back to that. And so for this example, this height here says, give this example a weight equal to the height of that thing. Give this example a weight equal to the height of this, height of this, height of that. Which is why, if you actually have an example, there's way out there, it's given a weight that's essentially zero, which is why it's waiting only to nearby examples when trying to fit a straight line for the for making predictions close to this, okay. Now, so one last thing that I want to mention, which is, the question just now, which is how do you choose the width of this Gaussian density, right? How fast is it, how thin should it be? And this decides how big a neighborhood should you look in order to decide what's the neighborhood of points you should use to fit this local straight line. And so for Gaussian function like this, this, I'm going to call this the bandwidth parameter tau. And this is a parameter or hyperparameter of the algorithm. And depending on the choice of tau, you can choose a fatter or thinner bell shaped curve, which causes you to look in a bigger or a narrower window in order to decide how many nearby examples you use in order to fit the straight line. And it turns out that I want to leave you to discover this yourself in the problem set. If you've taken a little bit of machine learning elsewhere, I've heard of the terms over test. It's not good, it's not good. It turns out that the choice of the bandwidth towel has an effect over fitting and under fitting. If you don't know what those terms mean, don't worry about it. We'll define them later this course. But what you get to do in the problem set is play with tau yourself and see why if tau is too broad, you end up fitting, you end up over-smoving the data. And if tau is too thin, you end up fitting a very jagged fit to the data. And if any of these things don't make sense yet, don't worry about it. They'll make sense after you play of it in the problem set. Since you play with the varying tau in the problem set, and see for yourself the net impact of that. OK, question? Thank you. This is tile screen. What happens when you need to infer a value of H outside the school today is that it turns out that you could still use this algorithm. It's just that results may not be very good. It depends, I guess. Locally with the regression, it's usually not greater than extrapolation. But then, most many learning algorithms are not greater than extrapolation. So all the formulas still work. There's still implementers. But yeah, you can also try it in your problem and set it and see what happens. Right, just one last question. Oh, you're on. Yes, this is possibly the variable towel, develan, yes it is. And there are quite complicated ways to choose towel based on how many points there are in the local region and so on. There's a huge literature on different formulas. Actually, for example, instead of this Gaussian bump thing, sometimes people use that triangle shape function, So it absolutely goes to zero upside some small means. So there are many versions of this algorithm. So I tend to use a locally weighted regression when you have a relatively low dimensional data set. So when the number of features is not too big, right? So when N is quite small, like two or three or something. And we have a lot of data. And you don't want to think about what features to use, right? So that's the scenario. So if you actually have a data set that looks like these up drawing locally way to the interaction is a pretty good algorithm. All right, let me just ask one last question. Oh, sure. Yes, if your law data won't be a competition expensive, yes, it would be. I guess law data is relative. Yes, if you have two, three, four dimensional data and hundreds of examples, I mean, 1,000 examples, it turns out the computation needed to fit the minimization is similar to the normal equations. And so it involves solving a list of system equations of dimension equal the number of training examples you have. So if that's 1,000 or a few thousand, that's not too bad. If you have millions of examples, then there also most of the scale algorithms, like KDTREES and much more complicated algorithms to do this when you have tens of millions of examples. OK. So really, you get a better sense of this algorithm when you play of it in the problem sets. Now, the second topic, so I'm going to put aside locally weighted regression. We won't talk about that set of ideas anymore today. But what I want to do today is on last Wednesday, I had said that I had promised last Wednesday that today I'll give a justification for why we use the squared error. Why the squared error? Why not to the fourth power or absolute value? And so what I want to show you today now is the probabilistic interpretation of linear regression. And this probabilistic interpretation will put us into good standing as we go on to logistic regression today and then generalize linear models later this week. We're about to keep the notation there, so you can continue to refer to it. So why these squares? Why squared error? Going to present a set of assumptions under which these squares using squared error falls out very naturally, which is, Let's say for housing price prediction, let's assume that there's a true price of every house yi, which is X transpose say their i plus epsilon i, where epsilon i is an error term that includes unmodeled effects and just random noise. So let's assume that the way housing prices truly work is that every house's price is a linear function the size of holes in number of bedrooms. Plus in every term, they capture unmodeled effects, such as maybe one day that sellers in unusually good mood or not unusually bad mood, and so that makes the price go higher or lower, which is no model that, as well as random noise, right? Or maybe I made a model of screw district, just to capture that as one of the features, but other things have an impact on housing prices. And we're going to assume that Epsilon i is distributed Gaussian with mean 0 and covariance sigma squared. So I'm going to use this notation to mean, so the way you read this notation is Epsilon i, this tittle you pronounce as is distributed, and then script n per N 0 comma sigma squared. This is a normal distribution, also called a Gaussian distribution, same thing, normal distribution and Gaussian distribution, the same thing. the normal distribution with mean 0 and variance sigma squared. And what this means is that the probability density of epsilon i is this is the Gaussian density. One of root 2 pi sigma e to the negative epsilon i squared over 2 sigma squared. And unlike the bell shape curve I used earlier for a local way to the integration, this thing does integrate to 1. This function integrates to 1 and so this is a Gaussian density. This is a probably density function. And this is the familiar Gaussian bell shaped curve with mean 0 and variance sigma squared, where sigma kind of controls the width of this Gaussian. And if you haven't seen Gaussian's for a while, we'll go over some of the probability-free rates as well. in the classes Friday discussion sections. So in other words, we assume that the way housing prices are determined is that first, there's a true price, theta transpose x, and then some random force of nature, the mood of the seller, or other factors, perturb it from this true value theta transpose x i. And the huge assumption we're going to make is that the epsilon i's, these error terms are iid. And iid from statistics stands for independently and identically distributed. And what that means is that the error term for one house is independent as the error term for a different house, which is actually not a true assumption. Because if one house is priced on one street doesn't usually high probably a price on a different house on the same street will also be unusually high. But this assumption that these epsilon i's are iid sense independently and identity distributed is one of those assumptions that, you know, it's probably not absolutely true, but maybe good enough that if you meet this assumption, you get a pretty good model, OK? And so let's see, under the set of assumptions, this implies that the density or the probability of yi, given x i and theta, this is going to be this. And I'll take this and write it another way. In other words, given x in theta, what's the density, what's the probability of a particular house's price? Well, it's going to be Gaussian, would mean given by theta transpose x, i, or theta transpose x, and variance given by sigma squared, OK? And so because the way that the price of a house's determined is by sinking theta transpose X was the, you know, the, quote, true price of the hulls, and then adding noise or adding error of variance sigma squared to it. And so, um, the, the assumptions on the left imply that given X and theta, the density of Y, you know, has this distribution, which is really, this is the random variable Y, and that's the mean, right, and that's the variance of the Gaussian density. Now, two pieces of notation, I want to get familiar with. The reason I wrote a semicolon here is that the way you read this equation is the semicolon should be read as parameterized as. And so because the alternative way to write this would be to say P of x i given y i to P of y given x i comma theta. But if you were to write this notation this way, this would be conditioning on theta. But theta is not a random variable. So you shouldn't condition on theta, which is why I'm going to write a semicolon. And so the way you read this is the probably of why I, given Xi and parameterized, excuse me, parameterized by theta is equal to that formula, okay? If you don't understand this distinction, again, don't worry too much about it. In statistics, there are multiple schools of statistics called Bayesian statistics, and frequency statistics. This is a frequency interpretation. For the purposes of machine learning, don't worry about it. But I find that being more consistent with terminology prevents some of our statistician's I'm getting really upset, but you know, so I'll try to follow statistics' convention. So, because just don't need unnecessary flak, I guess, but for practical purposes it's not that important. You get this notation rather than your whole work, don't worry about it, we won't penalize you, but I'll try to be consistent. But this just means that theta in this view is not a random variable. It's just theta as a set of parameters that parameterizes this probably distribution. And the way to read the second equation is when you write these equations, you usually don't write them with parentheses, but the way to pause this equation is to say that this thing, as a random variable, they're random variable y given x and prime tries by theta. This thing that I just drew in green parenthesis is distributed Gaussian with that distribution. Okay? All right. Any questions about this? So it turns out that if you are willing to make those assumptions, then any regression falls out almost naturally of the assumptions we just made. And in particular, under the assumptions we just made, the likelihood of the parameters theta. So this is pronounced the likelihood, the parameters theta, L of theta, which is defined as the probability of the data, right? So this is probably of all the values of y, of y1 up to ym, given all the x's and given the parameters theta, parameterized by theta. This is equal to the product from i equals 1 through m of p of yi given xi prime tries by theta. Because we assume the examples were, because we assume the errors are iid, that the error terms are independently and identity disuses each other. So the probability of all of the observations of all the values of y-intering set is equal to the product of the probabilities, because of the independence assumption we make. And so plugging in the definition of P of Y given x parameterized by Tata that we had up there, this is equal to product. Now, again, one more piece of terminology. You know, another question about bananas, if you say, hey, Andrew, what's the difference between likelihood and probability? Right. And so the likelihood of the parameters is exactly the same thing as the probability of the the data, but the reason we sometimes help our likelihood, and sometimes our probability is, we think of likelihood. So this is some function, right? This thing is a function of the data as well as a function of the parameter's data. And if you view this number, what if this number is, if you view this thing as a function of the parameters, holding the data fix, then we call that the likelihood. So if you think of the training set, the data is a fixed thing, and then varying parameters' data, then I'm gonna use the term likelihood. Whereas if you view the parameter stator as fixed and maybe varying the data, I'm gonna say probability, right? So you hear me use, well, I'll try to consistent. I'm pretty good at being consistent but not perfect. But I'm gonna try to say likelihood of the parameters and probability of the data, even though those evaluate to the same thing is just for this function, this function is function of the data and the parameters which one are you viewing as fixed in which one are you viewing as variable. So when you view this as a function of theta, I'm going to use this term likelihood. So hopefully you hear me say likelihood of the parameters. Hopefully you won't hear me say likelihood of the data. And then similarly, hopefully you hear me say probably of the data and not probably of the parameters, OK? Yeah. Like the parameters. OK, so probably of the data. No, sorry, yes, like a theta, got it, yes, sorry, yes, like a theta, it's here, oh, no, so, no, so theta is a set of parameters, it's not a random variable. So we like a few of theta, doesn't mean theta is a random variable. By the way, the stuff about what's a random variable and what's not, the semicolon versus common thing, we explain this in more detailed lecture notes. To me, this is part of, you know, a little bit paying homage to the religion of Bayesian frequencies versus Bayesian statistics. From a machine learning operational, what you write, quote, point of view, it doesn't matter that much. But the teacher is not around the variable. We have likely the parameters, which are not around the variable. Yeah, right. What's the rationale for choosing? Oh sure, why is F1I Gaussian? So it turns out because essential limit theorem from statistics, most error distributions are Gaussian. If something is, it is an error that is made up of lots of low noise sources, which are not too correlated, then by essential amount theorem, it will be Gaussian. So if you think that how the noise gradations are, the mood in the cellar was the school district, was the weather like, access to transportation, and all of these sources are not too correlated, and you add them up in the distribution of the Gaussian. And I think, well, yeah. So really, because the central limit theorem, I think the Gaussian has become a default noise distribution. But for things where the true noise distribution is very far from Gaussian, this model does do as well. And in fact, when you see generalized linear models on Wednesday, you see how to generalize all of these algorithms to very different distributions, like, plus, So we've seen the likelihood of the parameter theta. So I'm going to use lowercase L to denote the log likelihood. And the log likelihood is just a log of the likelihood. And so log of a product is equal to the sum of the logs. And so this is equal to, and so this is 10 log 1 of the root. And so one of the well tested methods in statistics for estimating parameters is to use maximum likelihood estimation, which means to choose data to maximize the likelihood. So given a data set, how would you like to estimate data? Well, one natural way to choose theta is to choose whatever value of theta has the highest likelihood. Or in other words, choose the value of theta so that that value of theta maximizes the probability of the data. And so to simplify the algebra, rather than maximizing the likelihood capital L is actually easier to maximize the log likelihood. But the log is a strictly monotonically increasing function. So the value of theta that maximizes the log likelihood should be the same as the value of theta, the maximizes the likelihood. And if you derive the log likelihood, we conclude that if you're using maximum likelihood estimation, what you'd like to do is choose the value of theta that maximizes this thing. But this first term is just a constant. Theta doesn't appear in this first term. And so what you'd like to do is choose the value of theta that maximizes this second term. Notice there's a minus sign there. And so what you'd like to do is IE choose theta to minimize this term. So sigma squared is just a constant. No matter what sigma squared is, so if you want to minimize this term, excuse me, if you want to maximize this term, negative of this thing, that's the same as minimizing this term. But this is just J of theta, the cost function you saw earlier for linear regression. So this little proof shows that choosing the value of theta to minimize the least squares errors like you saw last Wednesday, that's just finding the maximum likelihood estimate for the parameter's theta under the set of assumptions we made, that the error terms are Gaussian and IID. Oh, thank you. Oh, is there a situation where using this form as a least squares cross-function regret idea? No, so I think this derivation shows that this is completely equivalent to least squares, right? That if you're willing to assume that the error terms are Gaussian and IID, and if you want to use maximum likelihood estimation, which is very natural procedure and statistics, then you should use least squares. So yeah, if you knew for some reason in Arizona IID, which figure about the cost function, yes and no. I think that when building learning algorithms, often we make assumptions about the world that we just know are not 100% true, because it leads to algorithms that are competition-efficient. And so if you knew that your training set was very, very non-ID, they're most sophisticated models you could build, but very often, we wouldn't bother, I think, more often than not, might not bother, I can think of a few special cases where you would bother, but only if you think the assumptions are really, really bad, or if you don't have enough data and something. Quite rare. All right. Let me think. Why? All right. I want to move on to make sure we get through the rest of things, ain't there any questions? Yeah. Okay. All right. So, onto this machinery, right, so, so what do we do here was we set up a set of probabilistic assumptions. We made certain assumptions about P of Y given X, right? The key assumption was Gaussian errors in IID, and then through maximum likelihood estimation, we derived an algorithm which turns out to be exactly the least squares algorithm. What I'd like to do is take the framework and apply it to our first classification problem, right? And so the key steps are, you know, one, make an assumption about P of Y given X, a P of Y like the next parameter on the stator, and the second is figure out maximum likelihood estimation. So I'd like to take the screen where I can apply it to a different type of problem, where the value of y is now either 0 or 1. So it's a classification problem. So let's see. So in the classification problem, in our first classification problem, we're going to start with binary classification. So the value of y is either 0 or 1. And sometimes you call this binary class equation because there are two classes. And so that's a data set where, I guess, this is x and this is y. So something that's not a good idea is apply linear regression to this data set. Sometimes you will do it and maybe they'll get away with it, but I wouldn't do it. And here's y, which is tempting to just fill a straight line to this data and then take the straight line and threshold it at 0.5, and then say, oh, if it's above 0.5, rounds off to 1, it is below 0.5, rounds it off to 0. But it turns out that this is not a good idea for classification problems. And here's why, which is, for this data set, it's really obvious what the pattern is, right? Everything to the left with this point for the 0, I think the right at that point for the 1. But let's say we now change the data set to just add one more example there, right? And the pattern is still really obvious. It's everything to the left of this pretty zero. I think it's the right of that pretty good one. But if you fit a straight line to this data set with this extra one point there, and this is not even the outlier. It's really obvious that this point way out there should be labeled one. But with this extra example, if you fit a straight line to the data, you end up with maybe something like that. And somehow, adding this one example, it really didn't change anything, right? But somehow the straight line fit move from the green line to the blue line to the green line. And if you now threshold it at 0.5, you end up with a very different decision boundary. And so then the regression is just not a good algorithm for classification. Some people use it. And sometimes they get lucky and it's not too bad. But I personally never use the new regression for classification algorithms, right? Because it's just don't know if you end up with a really bad fit to the data like this, OK? So the other unnatural thing about using linear regression for classification problem is that you know for classification problem that the values are 0 or 1. And so it's output negative values or values even greater than them seems strange. So what I'd like to share of you now is really probably by far the most commonly used classification algorithm called logistic regression. And I want to say the two learning algorithms, I probably use the most often are linear regression and logistic regression. Yeah, probably this is true, yeah. And this is the algorithm. So as we designed in logistic regression algorithm, one of the things we might naturally want is for the hypothesis to output values between 0 and 1. And this is mathematical notation for the values for h of x or h of x lies in the set from 0 to 1, right? The 0 to 1 square bracket is a set of all real numbers from 0 to 1. So this says we want the hypothesis output values in between 0 and 1, in the set of all numbers between 0 to 1. And so we're going to choose the following form the hypothesis. So I'm going to define a function G of Z that looks like this. And this is called the sigmoid or the logistic function. These are synonyms. They mean exactly the same thing. So it can be called the sigmoid function or the logistic function. It means exactly the same thing. But I'm going to choose a function G of Z. And this function is shaped as follows. If you plot this function, you find that it looks like this. where if the horizontal axis is z, then this is g of z. And so it crosses x and to set at zero and it starts off well really, really closes zero, rises, and then adds some tones towards one. And so g of z outputs values are between zero and one. And what logistic regression does is instead of, let's see, So previously, for linear regression, we had chosen this form for the hypothesis, right? We just made a choice that we'll say that housing prices are a linear function of the future's X. And what the just think regression does is say the transpose X could be bigger than 1, it could be less than 0, which is not very natural. But it's going to take the transpose X and pass it through this sigma function G, so that it's forced to output values only between 0 and 1. Okay? So, you know, when designing a learning algorithm, sometimes you just have to choose the form of the hypothesis, how are you going to represent the function H, H subscript data? And so we're making that choice here today. And if you're wondering, you know, the loss of functions that we could have chosen, right? The loss of, why, why not a, why not dysfunction, or why not, you know, the loss of functions would vary this shape to go between zero and one. So why are we choosing this specifically? It turns out that there's a broader cause of algorithms called generalized linear models. You hear about on Wednesday of which this is a special case. So we've seen linear regression. You see logistic regression in a second. And on Wednesday, you see that both of these examples are much bigger set of algorithms derived using a broader set of principles. So for now, just take my word for it that we want to use the logistic function. It'll turn out you see on Wednesday it is a way to derive even dysfunction from more basic principles rather than just pulling out of this hat. But for now, let me just pull this out of the hat and say that's the one we want to use. So let's make some assumptions about the distribution of Y given X parameterized by theta. So I'm going to assume that the data has a following distribution. The problem of Y being one, again, from the breast cancer prediction that we had, from the first lecture, right? It would be the chance of a tumor being cancerous or being malignant, chance of Y being one, given the size of a tumor that's a feature X, parameterized by theta, that this is equal to the output of your hypothesis. So in other words, we're gonna assume that what you want your learning algorithm to do is input the features And tell me, what's the chance that this tumor is malignant? What's the chance that y is equal to 1? And by logic, I guess, because y can be only 1 or 0, the chance that y being equal to 0, this has got to be 1 minus that. Because if a tumor has a 10% chance of being malignant, that means it has a 1 minus that. It means it must have a 90% chance of being benign. Since these two probably these must add up to 1. OK? Yeah. Can we change the process through, yes, you can, but I'm not, yeah. But I think just to stick with convention in the literacy direction, yeah, sure. Because assume that P of y equals 1 was this and P of y equals 1 was that, but I think either way, it's just what you call positive example, what you call a negative example. So I'll use this convention. And now, bearing in mind that y, right, by definition, because it's a binary classification problem, but bearing in mind that y can only take on two values, 0 or 1, does a nifty sort of little algebra way to take these two equations and write them in one equation. And this will make some of the math a little bit easier. We're going to take these two equations, take these two assumptions, or take these two facts, and compress it into one equation, which is this. And I drop the theta subscript, just to simplify the notation a bit, right? I'm going to be a little bit sloppy sometimes. Well, low less formal, whether I write the theta there or not. OK? But these two definitions of p of y give an x power x by theta. Bear in mind that y is either 0, 1 can be compressed into one equation like this. And let me just say y. It's because if y is equal to 1, then this becomes h of x to the power of 1 times this thing to the power of 0. If y is equal to 1, then 1 minus y is 0. And you know, anything to the power of 0 is just equal to 1. And so if y is equal to 1, you end up with p of y given x parameterized by theta equals x of x, which is just what we had there. And conversely, if y is equal to 0, then this thing would be 0, and this thing would be 1. And so you end up with p of y given x parameter theta is equal to 1 minus h of x, which is just equal to that second equation. And so this is a nifty way to take these two equations and compress them into one line, because depending on whether y is 0 or 1, one of these two terms switches off, because it's exponentiated to the power of 0. And anything to the power of 0 is just equal to 1, right? So one of these terms is just, you know, 1, does leaving the other term and does selecting the appropriate equation, depending on whether y is your own. So with this little notation or trick, I'll make the data derivations simpler. So I'm going to use the new board like that. I should re-use a lot of this. All right, so we're going to use maximum likelihood estimation again. So let's write down the likelihood of the parameters. So, well, it's actually pf all the y's given all the x's parameterized by theta, which is equal to this, which is now equal to product from i equals 1 through m, h x i to the power of y i times 1 minus h of x i to the power of 1 minus y i. Where i did, was take this definition of p of y given x parameterized by theta. From that, out there, we did that little explanation trick and wrote it in here. And then, with maximum likelihood estimation, we'll want to find the value of theta that maximizes the likelihood, maximizes the likelihood of the parameters. And so, same as what we did for linear regression, to make the algebra a bit more simple, we're going to take the log of the likelihood and so compute the log likelihood. And so that's equal to, let's see, right? And so if you take the log of that, you end up with that. And so in other words, the last thing you want to do is try to choose the value of theta to try to maximize L of theta. Now, so just to summarize where we are, right? If you're trying to predict your malignancy bananas of tumors, you have a training set with XIYI, you define the likelihood, define the log likelihood, and then what you need to do is have an algorithm, such as gradient descent or gradient descent, talk about NSACC, to try to find the value of theta that maximizes the log likelihood, and then having chosen the value of theta, when a new patient walks into the doctor's office, you would, you know, take the features of the new tumor and then use h of theta to estimate the chance of this new tumor and a new patient that walks into tomorrow. To estimate the chance that this new thing is malignant or benign. So the algorithm we're going to use to choose theta to try to maximize the log likelihood is gradient ascent or bash gradient ascent. And what that means is we will update the parameters theta j according to theta j plus the partial derivative respect to the log likelihood. And the differences from what you saw for linear regression from last time is the following, just two differences, I guess. For linear regression, last week I had written this down. Theta j gets updated as theta j minus partial with respect to theta j of j of theta j. So you saw this on Wednesday. So the two differences between that is, well, first, instead of j of theta, you're now trying to optimize the log likelihood, instead of the squared cost function. And the second change is previously, you were trying to minimize the squared error. That's why we had the minus. And today, you're trying to maximize the log likelihood, which is why there's a plus sign. And so gradient descent is trying to climb down this hill where it's gradient ascent has a concave function like this, and it's trying to climb up the hill rather than climb down the hill. So that's why there's a plus symbol here instead of a minus symbol, because it's trying to maximize the function rather than minimize the function. So the last thing to really flash out this algorithm, which is done in electionals by I don't want to do to you today is to plug in the definition of h of theta into this equation and then take this thing. So that's the log likelihood of theta. And then through calculus and algebra, you could take the riveters of this whole thing with respect to theta. This is done in detail in the lecture notes. I don't want to do this in class. But go ahead and take the routers of this big formula with respect to the parameter theta in order to figure out what is that thing, right? What is this thing that I just circled? And it turns out that if you do so, you will find that bash gradient descent is the following. You update theta j according to, oh, actually, I'm sorry, I forgot the learning rate. It's your learning rate alpha. Learning rate alpha times this, because this term here is the partial derivative respect to a theta j. And the full calculus and so on derivation is given in the lecture notes. Is there a chance of local maximum in this case? No, there isn't. It turns out that this function, the log-life-figure function, or theta, full logistic regression, it always looks like that. So this is a concave function. So there are no local, the only maximum is a global one, maximum. That's actually another reason why we chose a logistic function, because If you choose a logistic function, rather than some other function, you're going to reserve the one. You guarantee that the likelihood function has only one global maximum. And there's actually a big class of algorithm. Actually, what you'll see on Wednesday is there's a big class of algorithms of which the new regression is one example, logistic regression is another example. And for all of the algorithms in this class, there are no local optimal problems when you derive them this way. So you see that on Wednesday, when you talk about generalizing the models, OK? So actually, before I take your questions, just one question for you to think about. This looks exactly the same as what we've figured out for linear regression, right? When actually, the difference for linear regression was I had a minus sign here, and I reversed these two terms. I think there's a big sign, minus yi. If you put a minus sign there and reverse these two terms, so take the minus minus, this is actually exactly the same as what we have come up with for linear regression. So why is this difference, right? I started off saying, don't use the linear regression the classification problems because of that problem that a synchal example could really, so I saw some examples saying that linear regression is really bad for classification. And then we did all this work and came back to the same algorithm. So what happened? Yeah, go ahead. All right, cool, also, right? So what happened is the definition of extra phaser is now different than before, but the surface level de-equation turns out to be the same. And again, it turns out that for every algorithm in this class of algorithms you see on Wednesday, You end up with the same thing. Actually, this is a general property of a much longer, bigger class of algorithms called generalized linear models. Although, yeah, interesting historical divergence, because of the confusion between these two algorithms in the early history of machine learning, there was some debate about, you know, between academics saying, no, I invented that. No, I invented that. But, and it goes, no, it's actually different algorithms. All right, any questions? Oh, go ahead. Oh, great question. Is there a equivalent to normal equations to logistic regression? The short answer is no. So for linear regression, the normal equations gives you like a one-shot way to just find the best value of theta. There is no, no way to just have a close form of equation that lets you find the best value of theta, which is why you always have to use an algorithm at iterative optimization algorithms, such as gradient ascents, or we'll see in a second Newton's method. So, there's a great lead into the last topic for today, which is Newton's method. You know, gradient descent, right? It's a good algorithm. I use gradient descent all the time, but it takes a baby step, takes a baby step, takes a baby step, takes a lot of iterations for gradient descent to converge. There's another algorithm called Newton's method, which allows you to take much bigger jumps. So let's say there are problems where you might need, you know, say a hundred iterations or a thousand iterations of gradient descent, that if you run this algorithm called Newton's method, you might need only 10 iterations to get a very good value of theta. But each iteration will be more expensive. We'll talk about pros and cons in a second. But let's see how, let's describe this algorithm, which is sometimes much faster than gradient descent for optimizing the value of theta. So what we'd like to do is, all right, so let me use a simplified one-dimensional problem to describe Newton's method. So I'm going to solve a slightly different problem with Newton's method, which is say you have some function F, and you want to find theta such that f of theta is equal to 0. So this is a problem that Newton's method solves. And the way we're going to use this later is what you really want is to maximize L of theta. And well, at the maximum, the first derivative must be 0. So i.e., you want to value where the derivative L prime of theta is equal to 0. And l prime is the derivative of theta, because this is l prime is another notation for the first derivative of theta. So you want to maximize the function, or minimize the function, what that really means is you want to find a point where the derivative is equal to zero. So the way we're going to use Newton's method is we're going to set f of theta equal to the derivative and then try to find a point where the derivative is equal to zero. But to explain Newton's method, I'm going to work on this other problem where you have a function f, and you just want to find a value of theta where f of theta is equal to zero, and then we'll set f equal to l prime theta, and that's how we'll apply this to logistic regression. So let me draw in pictures how this algorithm works. So let's say that's a function f, and to make this drawable on a whiteboard, I'm going to assume theta is just a row number for now. So theta is just a single scalar, a row number. So this is how Newton's method works. And the goal is to find this point. The goal is to find the value of theta with f of theta is equal to 0. So let's say you start off at this point. At the first iteration, random initialized theta or inertia theta is 0 or something. But let's say you start off at that point. This is how one iteration of Newton's method which is, right, start off with theta zero, that's just a first value, first iteration. What we're going to do is look at the function f, and then find the line that's just tangent to f. So take the derivative of f, and find a line that's just tangent to f. So take that red line, there's just touches a function f. And we're going to use, if you will, use a straight line approximation to f, and solve for where f touches the horizontal axis. So we're going to solve for the point where this straight line touches the horizontal axis. And then we're going to set this, and that's one iteration of Newton's method. So we're going to move from this value to this value. And then in the second iteration of Newton's method, we're going to look at this point. And again, take a line that's just tangent to it. And then solve for where this touches the horizontal axis. And then that's after two iterations of Newton's method. And then you repeat, take this. Sometimes you can overshoot a little bit, but that's OK. And then that's, because I'll cycle back to rate, let's say the three, then you take this, let's say the four. So you can tell that Newton's method is actually pretty fast out of the room, right? In just one, two, three, four iterations, we've gotten really, really close to the point where f theta is equal to 0. So let's write out the math for how you do this. So let's see, let me just write out the derive how you go from theta 0 to theta 1. So I'm going to use this horizontal distance. I'm going to denote this as delta. This triangle is uppercase Greek alphabet delta. This is low case delta, that's uppercase delta. And then the height here, well, that's just f of theta zero. Since the height is just f of theta zero. And so let's see. So what we like to do is solve for the value of delta. Because one iteration of Newton's method is a set, theta 1 is set to theta 0 minus delta. So how do you solve a delta? Well, from calculus, we know that the slope of the function f is the height over the run, height over the width. And so we know that the derivative of delta f prime, that's the derivative of f, at the point theta 0, that's equal to the height, that's f of theta, divided by the horizontal. So the derivative, meaning the slope of the red line is by definition the derivatives, is this ratio between this height over this width. And so delta is equal to f of theta 0 over a prime of theta 0. And if you plug that in, then you find that a single iteration of Newton's method is the following rule of theta. t plus 1 gets updated as theta t minus f of theta t over f prime of theta t, where instead of 0 and 1, I replace that with t and t plus 1. And finally, the very first thing we did was let So let f of theta be equal to say L prime of theta because we want to find a place where the first derivative of L is 0, then this becomes theta t plus 1 gets updated as theta t minus L prime of theta t over L double prime of theta t. So it's really the first derivative divided by the second derivative. So Newton's method is a very fast algorithm. And it has Newton's method and Joyce properly called quadratic convergence, not the gradient, don't worry too much about what it means. But informally, what it means is that if on one iteration Newton's method is 0.01 error, so on the x axis, they're 0.01 away from the value, from the true minimum, of the true value of f is equal to 0. After one iteration, the error could go to 0.001 error. And after two iterations, it goes to 0, 0. It goes to 0, 0. But roughly, Newton's method, under certain assumptions that function is smooth, not too far from quadratic, the number of significant digits that you have converged to the minimum doubles on a single iteration. So this is called quadratic convergence. And so when you get near the minimum, Newton's method converges extremely rapidly. So after a single iteration becomes much more accurate, after another iteration becomes way, way, way more accurate, which is why Newton's method requires relatively few iterations. And let's see, I have written out Newton's method for when theta is a real number. When theta is a vector, then the generalization of the ru I wrote above is the following. Theta t plus 1 gives up to t to the theta t plus where x is the hessian matrix. So these details are written in lecture notes. But to give you a sense, when theta is a vector, this is a vector of derivatives. I guess this rn plus 1 dimensional. if theta is an R n plus 1, then this derivative respect to theta of the log likelihood becomes a vector of derivatives. And the Hessian matrix, this becomes a matrix as R n plus 1 by n plus 1. So it becomes a squared matrix with the dimension equal to the current of vector theta. And the Hessian matrix is defined as the matrix of partial derivatives. So the disadvantage of Newton's method is that in high-dimensional problems, if theta is a vector that each step of Newton's method is much more expensive because you're either solving linear system equations or having to invert a pretty big matrix. So if theta is 10-dimensional, you know, this involves inverting a 10 by 10 matrix, which is fine, but if theta was 10,000 or 100,000, then each iteration requires computing like 100,000 by 100,000 matrix and inverting that, which is very hard, right? It's actually very difficult to do that in very high-dimensional problems. So, you know, some rules of thumb, if the number of parameters you have, well, if the number of parameters the direction is not too big. If you have 10 parameters or 50 parameters, I would almost certainly, I would very likely use Newton's method, because then you probably get convergence in maybe 10 iterations or, you know, 15 iterations, or even less than 10 iterations. But if you have very large number parameters, if you have, you know, 10,000 parameters, then rather than dealing with a 10,000 by 10,000 matrix, or even bigger, than 50 by 1000 by 50,000 matrix, maybe 50,000 parameters, I would use a gradient descent instead. But if the number of parameters is not too big so that the computational cost per iteration is manageable, then Newton's method converges in a very small number of the iterations and can be much faster out of them than gradient descent. So that's it for Newton's methods. On Wednesday, I'm just running on time, on Wednesday, you hear about generalizing models. Unfortunately, I promise to be in Washington, D.C. tonight, I guess, through Wednesday. So you hear from some, I think, Annen will give the lecture on Wednesday, but I will be back next week. Unfortunately, what's fine to do this, but because of this, how things can't lecture. So Annen will be doing this. Thanks, everyone. See you on Wednesday.
