Timestamp: 2025-01-10T00:25:48.019066
Title: Quantitative_Technology_Forecasting_a_Review_of_Trend_Extrapolation
URL: Text file upload
Status: success
Duration: 0:00

Description:
**Summary:**

1.  **Introduction & Motivation:**
    *   Technology forecasting is crucial for understanding technological change.
    *   Both qualitative (expert-based) and quantitative (data-driven) methods are used.
    *   Trend extrapolation is a widely used quantitative approach.
    *   There is a gap in systematic reviews of quantitative trend extrapolation methods in technology forecasting.
    *   This paper aims to close the gap by conducting a systematic literature review (SLR).

2.  **Methodology:**
    *   The study followed a 5-step process for SLRs.
    *   **Research Questions:**
        *   Q1: What does existing research provide about quantitative trend extrapolation methods for technology forecasting?
        *   Q2: What methods have been adopted, and what technologies have they been applied to?
    *   Used PRISMA guidelines for the SLR, including search strategies, inclusion/exclusion criteria, and data validation.
    *   Searched Google Scholar and Web of Science from 1990 to 2022, yielding 5,498 articles initially.
    *   Screened articles based on title/abstract, then full text, resulting in 25 articles for in-depth analysis.

3.  **Findings (Q1): Implementation of Trend Extrapolation**
    *   Summarized the selected 25 articles, including the methods used, targeted technologies, data sources, and model evaluations.
    *   Various regression models, growth curves, time series analyses, and machine learning techniques were identified.
    *   Emphasized the use of hold-out samples for validation and the importance of model performance assessment.

4.  **Findings (Q2): Methods and Technologies**
    *   Categorized methods into four classes: growth curves, machine learning, time series, and "other"
    *   **Growth Curves:** S-curves (logistic, Gompertz, Bass), Moore's Law, Wright's Law (experience curve) were prevalent.
    *   **Machine Learning:** Linear Regression, LSTM, SVR, CNN, GRU, EEMD-LSTM and other Neural Network variations.
    *   **Time Series:** ARIMA, Exponential Smoothing (simple, Holt's, Holt-Winters), Geometric random walk, and Grey model.
    *   **"Other":** Lotka-Volterra equations, Gupta model, SAW model, and Tobit II model.
    *   Growth curves were the most frequently used class, but machine learning gained traction more recently.

5.  **Discussion and Conclusions:**
    *   Growth curves and time series remain vital, while machine learning, including hybrid methods, are emerging.
    *   Hybrid models show potential for improving forecasting accuracy but need more research.
    *   Future reviews could include more databases and broader time spans.
    *   The study provides an overview of commonly used quantitative techniques.

**Core Point:** This systematic literature review provides a comprehensive overview of the quantitative trend extrapolation methods used in technology forecasting, categorizing the diverse approaches and highlighting recent trends in machine learning-based models.

**Fundamental Point:** While growth curves and traditional time series techniques remain important for technology forecasting, the emergence of machine learning and hybrid models indicates a significant evolution of the field, promising greater accuracy and adaptability in predicting technological change.

**Overarching Framework:** The study adopts a systematic literature review framework, providing a rigorous and transparent exploration of the use of quantitative trend extrapolation in technology forecasting, allowing for clear understanding of both historical practices and emerging trends.

<Mermaid_Diagram>
    graph LR
    A[Technology Forecasting] --> B(Quantitative Methods);
    A --> C(Qualitative Methods);
    B --> D[Trend Extrapolation];
    D --> E[Growth Curves];
    D --> F[Machine Learning];
     D --> G[Time Series];
    D --> H["Other Methods"];
    E --> E1(S-Curves);
    E --> E2("Exponential Growth Law");
    E --> E3("Experience Curve");
    E1 --> E1a("Logistic Curve");
    E1 --> E1b("Gompertz Curve");
        E1 --> E1c("Bass Model");
    E2 --> E2a("Moore's Law");
        E2 --> E2b("Kryder's Law");
    E3 --> E3a("Wright's Law");
        E3 --> E3b("Goddard's Law");
    F --> F1("Linear Regression");
    F --> F2("LSTM");
        F --> F3("SVR");
    F --> F4("Conv-RNN");
      F --> F5("GRU");
    F --> F6("EEMD-LSTM");
    G --> G1("ARIMA");
    G --> G2("Exponential Smoothing");
        G --> G3("Grey Model");
    G2 --> G2a("Simple ES");
        G2 --> G2b("Holt's ES");
           G2 --> G2c("Holt-Winters ES");
    H --> H1("Lotka-Volterra");
     H --> H2("Gupta Model");
    H --> H3("SAW Model");
     H --> H4("Tobit II Model");
    D --> I[Systematic Literature Review (SLR)];
   
  I --> J{PRISMA Guidelines};
  J --> K[Search (Google Scholar & Web of Science)];
  K --> L[Screening];
    L-->M[Analysis of 25 studies];
     M --> N[Categorize Methods];
    N-->O[Identified Method Classes];
     O-->P[Discuss Findings];
   
    style A fill:#f9f,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
     style D fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
     style I fill:#cff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
     style O fill:#cfc,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
</Mermaid_Diagram>


Content:

Preprint version, authorized for distribution on preprint servers, of: P.-H. Tsai, D. Berleant, et al., 
Quantitative technology forecasting: a review of trend extrapolation methods, International Journal 
of Innovation and Technology Management (2023), 20(4):2330002, 
https://doi.org/10.1142/S0219877023300021, World Scientific Publishing Company.   

 

Quantitative Technology Forecasting: a Review 
of Trend Extrapolation Methods 

Peng-Hung Tsai*1, Daniel Berleant*1, Richard S. Segall2, Hyacinthe Aboudja3, 
Venkata Jaipal R. Batthula1, Sheela Duggirala1 and Michael Howell1 
*ptsai@ualr.edu, jdberleant@ualr.edu; 1Dept. of Information Science, University 
of Arkansas at Little Rock; 2Dept. of Information Systems & Business Analytics, 
Arkansas State University, Jonesboro; 3Dept. of Computer Science, Oklahoma 
City University 

Abstract 

Quantitative technology forecasting uses quantitative methods to understand and 
project technological changes. It is a broad field encompassing many different 
techniques and has been applied to a vast range of technologies. A widely used 
approach in this field is trend extrapolation. Based on the publications available to us, 
there has been little or no attempt made to systematically review the empirical 
evidence on quantitative trend extrapolation techniques. This study attempts to close 
this gap by conducting a systematic review of technology forecasting literature 
addressing the application of quantitative trend extrapolation techniques. We 
identified 25 studies relevant to the objective of this research and classified the 
techniques used in the studies into different categories, among which growth curves 
and time series methods were shown to remain popular over the past decade, while 
newer methods, such as machine learning-based hybrid models, have emerged in 
recent years. As more effort and evidence are needed to determine if hybrid models 
are superior to traditional methods, we expect to see a growing trend in the 
development and application of hybrid models to technology forecasting. 

Keywords: technological forecasting; trend extrapolation; technology evolution; 
systematic literature review 

 

1. Introduction 

For many years, researchers have investigated how to measure technology 

change and forecast its development. As a result, numerous technology 

forecasting techniques have been studied and applied to a variety of technologies. 

Nevertheless, there is not yet a generally accepted method superior to any 

alternatives, as the choice of which method to use is affected by the availability of 

data and experts, the field in which the predictions are applied, and the needs of 

the intended users (National Research Council, 2010). In general, the developed 



2 

 

methods can be divided into qualitative and quantitative ones (Chou, 2011; Coates 

et al., 2001; Lee, 2021; Batthula et al., 2021). Qualitative methods use the intuition, 

expertise, and insight of experts to understand and forecast technological 

development. A popular example in this class is the Delphi method (Chou, 2011; 

Coates et al., 2001), which was proposed in the 1950s by RAND Corporation to 

forecast the impact of technology on warfare (Cho and Daim, 2013). It uses a 

questionnaire to obtain opinions about a topic from a panel of experts with the aim 

of achieving a well-informed consensus on future prospects of a technology. 

Quantitative methods, on the other hand, use historical quantitative data to identify 

technology change patterns in the data that can be extended into the future to 

obtain a forecast. In this category, a widely used approach is quantitative trend 

extrapolation. That approach first employs curve fitting to derive a trend line or 

curve that best fits a given set of historical data points and then extrapolates the 

resulting line or curve into the future to generate forecasts, yielding a trend 

extrapolation. Forecasting success in this approach is dependent on selecting a 

suitable fitting curve (Calleja-Sanz et al., 2020). 

In this study, we aim to explore the technology forecasting literature on 

quantitative trend extrapolation techniques and provide an overview of the present 

state of research regarding the methods and their applications in different 

technological domains. To achieve this aim, we employ the systematic literature 

review (SLR) method. Given the huge and ever-growing body of literature 

available, a literature review that includes only a few studies, which may or may 

not be representative of all relevant studies, is subject to significant biases. On the 

other hand, by adhering to certain guidelines, SLRs provide an effective method 



3 

 

for minimizing bias in the selection of studies as well as ensuring an objective 

review of the literature. Furthermore, compared to traditional (non-systematic) 

literature reviews, SLRs allow researchers to research the literature of a topic area 

in a transparent and rigorous way (Kitchenham and Charters, 2007). As SLRs aim 

to comprehensively collect related research on a topic in an unbiased and reliable 

manner (Shaffril et al., 2021), it is required to create a review protocol at the very 

beginning that clearly describes the research question to be addressed and details 

of the methods to be used to conduct the review. Additionally, selection criteria 

and search strategies must be defined for screening the studies and gathering as 

much of the relevant literature as possible. It is also required to document all pre-

defined guidelines (such as search strategies, selection criteria, etc.), list the 

databases searched, and give the methods used, thereby ensuring transparency, 

validity, and replicability. It is the rigor involved in the search process that 

distinguishes SLRs from traditional reviews. 

A number of studies have surveyed the literature on technology forecasting. 

Petrina (1990) reviewed the historical backgrounds and methods of technological 

forecasting and technology assessment and compared their similarities and 

differences. Coates et al. (2001) looked at the evolution of technological 

forecasting and discussed its social, political, business, and institutional drivers. 

Oliver et al. (2002) undertook a preliminary survey of long-term technological 

forecasting techniques directed to military needs. In addition, Martino (2003) 

described developments in technological forecasting methodology including 

environmental scanning, models, scenarios, Delphi, extrapolation, probabilistic 

forecasts, technology measurement, and chaos theory. Yu (2007) reviewed and 



4 

 

compared major technology forecasting methods classified by the specific 

underlying assumptions about how the technology innovation process works to 

determine if the decision-focused scenario approach is useful for technology 

forecasting in a volatile business environment. Firat et al. (2008) summarized the 

field of technological forecasting, covering its evolution, techniques, and 

applications, and analyzed how it is used in practice. In the past decade other work 

has also appeared. A study conducted by Cho and Daim (2013) provided a 

historical overview of technology forecasting as well as an examination of the 

characteristics and chronological evolution of various technology forecasting 

methods. Kang et al. (2013) tracked the evolution of technology forecasting 

research activities and looked at the relationship between the forecasting 

approaches used and the industries using the approaches. Meade and Islam 

(2015) reviewed the approaches and applications of diffusion modeling and 

forecasting, time series forecasting, and technological forecasting used in the 

information and communications technology area. Moreover, Doos et al. (2016) 

carried out a systematic review of the methods used to predict future health 

technologies within a span of 3–20 years. Haleem et al. (2018) examined the 

historical evolution of technology forecasting and assessment and identified its 

methodologies along with the analysis of the relationship among the identified 

methods. Similarly, Calleja-Sanz et al. (2020) explored the evolution of technology 

forecasting methods and discussed their concepts, developments, and recent 

trends. More recently, Lee (2021) presented an overview of journal articles on data 

analytics in technology forecasting published in the field of technology and 

innovation management, and Viet et al. (2021) systematically reviewed data 



5 

 

mining methods for emerging technology trend analysis and forecasting. Table 1 

presents a comparison of existing surveys of the literature on technology 

forecasting (TF). In summary, this body of work has the following limitations. 

 Most surveys did not use the SLR approach to conduct the review. 

 Most surveys are not up to date, and thus many relevant studies published 

in recent years have been missed. 

 Several studies concentrated on a specific technological domain where the 

TF methods were applied, thus excluding consideration of the field overall. 

 None of the studies comprehensively and thoroughly addressed the 

quantitative techniques for trend extrapolation applied to diverse contexts. 

By addressing these weaknesses, this study offers three major contributions to the 

scientific literature.  

 It is the first attempt, to the best of the authors’ knowledge, to conduct an 

SLR on technology forecasting addressing the application of quantitative 

trend extrapolation techniques to various technologies. 

 It gives an updated picture of the published studies on applying quantitative 

trend extrapolation to technology forecasting and serves as a reference for 

technology forecasting researchers interested in employing the SLR 

approach. 

 It helps familiarize scholars and practitioners with the current state of 

quantitative trend extrapolation methods for technology forecasting, better 

enabling them to identify directions for developing and improving the 

methods. 



6 

 

Table 1: Comparison of existing surveys of the technology forecasting (TF) literature 

Authors Strengths Limitations 

Petrina (1990) • Discussed the history and evolution of TF. 
• Classified TF methods and divided them into component 
methods. 

• Provided an overview of TF methods without delving 
into each one in depth. 
• Lacked a picture of the current state of TF research 
related to quantitative trend extrapolation. 
• Not an SLR study. 

Coates et al. (2001) • Examined TF's past and provided detailed insights into 
its future. 
• Classified TF methods into different groups. 

• Trend extrapolation techniques received little 
discussion. 
• Lacked a picture of the current state of TF research 
related to quantitative trend extrapolation. 
• Not an SLR study. 

Oliver et al. (2002) • Divided TF methods into formal and informal 
approaches for predicting technologies applicable to the 
military. 
• Provided comparisons among the methods for best 
applications and suitable time frames. 

• Trend extrapolation techniques received little 
discussion. 
• Lacked a picture of the current state of TF research 
related to quantitative trend extrapolation. 
• Not an SLR study. 

Martino (2003) • Discussed circa 2003 recent developments and new 
approaches to technological forecasting. 

• The discussion of trend extrapolation techniques was 
centered on growth curves. 
• Lacked a picture of the current state of TF research 
related to quantitative trend extrapolation. 
• Not an SLR study. 

Yu (2007) • Compared major TF methods and described their 
advantages, pitfalls, and applicabilities. 

• Trend extrapolation techniques received little 
discussion. 
• Lacked a picture of the current state of TF research 
related to quantitative trend extrapolation. 
• Not an SLR study. 



7 

 

Authors Strengths Limitations 

Firat et al. (2008) • Presented a summary of some of the most popular TF 
methods and discussed their use in business  

• There was not much discussion of trend extrapolation 
methods 
• Lacked a picture of the current state of TF research 
related to quantitative trend extrapolation 
• Not an SLR study 

Cho and Daim (2013) • Introduced TF from a historical perspective 
• Reviewed techniques that combine different TF methods 
to improve forecasting accuracy 

• There was not much discussion of trend extrapolation 
methods 
• Lacked a picture of the current state of TF research 
related to quantitative trend extrapolation 
• Not an SLR study 

Kang et al. (2013) • Extensively collected the TF studies for the time period 
beginning with the first published journal article 
• Identified development trends and patterns of TF 
research and application areas of TF methods 

• Trend extrapolation techniques received little discussion 
• Lacked a picture of the current state of TF research 
related to quantitative trend extrapolation 
• Not an SLR study 

Meade and Islam 
(2015) 

• Reviewed the literature according to applications and 
forecasting approaches in the area of information and 
communications technology (ICT) 

• The study context where TF methods were applied was 
limited to the domain of ICT 
• The TF research activities in the context of ICT were 
limited and mostly expert opinion based 
• Lacked a picture of the current state of TF research 
related to quantitative trend extrapolation 
• Not an SLR study 



8 

 

Authors Strengths Limitations 

Doos et al. (2016) • Conducted a systematic search of the literature to 
collect studies 
• Provided a comprehensive review of the approaches 
used to forecast health technologies and the types of 
technologies targeted 

• The study context where TF methods were applied was 
limited to the domain of health technologies 
• The methods used by the selected studies were mainly 
the approaches involving surveys of experts, with the 
absence of techniques for trend extrapolation 
• Lacked a picture of the current state of TF research 
related to quantitative trend extrapolation 

Haleem et al. (2018) • Conducted an extensive search of the literature 
spanning 1960-2015 
• Summarized the TF methods, the contexts in which the 
methods are applied, and the limitations of the methods 

• Fitted the identified TF methods into different families 
without giving many details about each method 
• Trend extrapolation techniques received little discussion 
• Lacked a picture of the current state of TF research 
related to quantitative trend extrapolation 
• Not an SLR study 

Calleja-Sanz et al. 
(2020) 

• Divided TF methods into different groups and discussed 
in detail the concepts, recent advances, and new 
methods for each group 

• The discussion of trend extrapolation techniques was 
limited 
• Lacked a picture of the current state of TF research 
related to quantitative trend extrapolation 
• Not an SLR study 

Lee (2021) • Focused on reviewing the literature applying quantitative 
methods and models to TF 
• Identified relevant TF studies with an established 
framework 

• Lacked specific details involved in the methods 
surveyed 
• Trend extrapolation techniques was little discussed 
• Not an SLR study 

Viet et al. (2021) • Investigated the literature employing data mining 
methods for forecasting emerging technologies based on 
the systematic mapping methodology 

• Lacked specific details involved in the methods 
surveyed 
• The discussion of trend extrapolation techniques was 
limited 
• Not an SLR study 

 



9 

 

2. Methodology 

We followed a five-step process for SLRs as proposed by Khan et al. (2003). We 

detail these steps in the following subsections. 

2.1 Framing questions for a review 

To present an up-to-date overview of research on applying quantitative trend 

extrapolation to technology forecasting, we seek to address the following key 

questions. 

Q1: What does existing research provide about the implementation of 

quantitative trend extrapolation methods for technology forecasting? 

Q2: What are the quantitative trend extrapolation methods that have been 

adopted and what are the technologies to which they have been applied? 

2.2 Identifying relevant work 

A review protocol was developed to identify and choose relevant articles using 

the PRISMA (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-

Analyses) statement by Moher et al. (2009) as a guide. The PRISMA 

methodology is the acknowledged standard for performing an SLR. Figure 1 

shows a flow diagram of the search strategy followed by details of the search 

and selection process. 

 

 



10 

 

 

Figure 1: Flow diagram for the search and selection process 

 

The steps in the process are as follows: 

 Identification 

We chose Google Scholar and Web of Science to search for the relevant 

publications. Google Scholar was used because it offers relatively extensive 

coverage of academic publications compared to other online literature 

databases (Martín-Martín, 2018) and is freely accessible. Web of Science, 

which is one of the most recognized databases in many scientific fields 

(Chadegani et al., 2013), was used in order to broaden the list of collections 

and provide a crosscheck. 



11 

 

The search consisted of search queries for each database suited to the 

technical and terminological similarities and differences between these two 

databases. We performed the Google Scholar search on October 12, 2022, 

with two different queries. We first broadly searched full text articles with 

specified keywords such as technology, forecasting, progress, quantitative, 

machine learning, extrapolate, error, and their synonyms and related words, 

occurring anywhere in the article (see Table 2). Then we limited the search to 

titles. We left the "include patents" and "include citations" boxes unchecked to 

exclude patents and inaccessible publications. We searched the Web of 

Science platform on the same date, with three different queries. First was a 

search of All Databases, which provides cross-search of multiple databases, 

with the first query executed on title. Second was a search of All Databases 

again with the second query executed on topic. Third was a search of the Web 

of Science Core Collection with the third query executed on all fields. Each 

search query consisted of different keywords combined with the appropriate 

Boolean operators, quotation marks, and/or the asterisk truncation symbol *. 

While searching both Google Scholar and Web of Science, we set the range 

of publication dates from 1990 to 2022 to keep our review to manageable 

levels. The beginning year 1990 was chosen as we considered that Machine 

Learning, an increasingly popular approach for curve fitting and trend 

extrapolation, began to take off in the 1990s. Also, we limited the search results 

to English language articles. 

After our database search, an initial 5,498 articles were identified, of which 

4,536 were found first in Google Scholar and an additional 962 in Web of 



12 

 

Science. Table 2 shows, after a series of keyword screenings, the ultimately 

used query strings and the corresponding search. 

 

Table 2: Search strings and results 

Database Query Search string  Results 

Google 
Scholar 

1 ("technology|technological forecasting|foresight|prediction") 
("technology|technological 
progress|progression|advancement|development|evolution|chan
ge|growth") (quantitative|mathematical|statistical|"machine 
learning") extrapolate error|residual 

2,097 

  2 allintitle: technology|technological|technologies 
forecasting|forecast|forecasts 

2,439 

Web of 
Science 

1 (TI=(technolog* forecast*)) AND (LA==("ENGLISH")) 600 
 

2 (TS=("technology forecasting" OR "technological forecasting" 
OR "technology foresight" OR "technological foresight" OR 
"technology prediction" OR "technological prediction")) AND 
TS=(quantitative OR mathematical OR statistical OR "machine 
learning") and English (Languages) 

268 

 
3 ((ALL=("technology forecasting" OR "technological forecasting" 

OR "technology foresight" OR "technological foresight" OR 
"technology prediction" OR "technological prediction")) AND 
ALL=("technology progress" OR "technological progress" OR 
"technology progression" OR "technological progression" OR 
"technology advancement" OR "technological advancement" OR 
"technology development" OR "technological development" OR 
"technology evolution" OR "technological evolution" OR 
"technology change" OR "technological change" OR "technology 
growth" OR "technological growth")) AND ALL=(quantitative OR 
mathematical OR statistical OR "machine learning") and English 
(Languages) 

94 

Total     5,498 

 

 Screening 

Next, we manually screened the identified literature at the level of titles and 

abstracts. The purpose was to narrow down the number of articles for in-depth 

review of their full texts. To achieve this end, we applied the inclusion and 



13 

 

exclusion criteria as stated to select the articles. 

 

 Inclusion Criteria: 

1. Articles involving using quantitative trend extrapolation techniques for 

technology forecasting. 

2. Articles such as journal articles, conference papers, and other forms of 

articles exclusive of theses and book chapters. 

3. Articles published during the period of 1990-2022. 

 Exclusion Criteria: 

1. Articles dealing with technology diffusion or adoption, which is the 

process by which a technology is adopted by a population (Meade and 

Islam, 2015) and thus does not suit our purpose of analyzing trends in 

technological advancement and projecting the future technology 

performance. 

2. Theoretical or concept articles not using a curve fitting method to fit a 

particular dataset. 

3. Articles not written in English. 

4. Duplicate articles. 

 

5,171 articles were filtered out by the inclusion and exclusion criteria of the 

screening step. After excluding them, we had 327 articles ready for further 

examination. 

 



14 

 

 Eligibility: 

Subsequently, we surveyed the full texts of the remaining 327 articles and used 

the following criteria to determine their eligibility. 

1. Articles must clearly describe the forecasting techniques utilized and the 

technologies where the techniques were applied. 

2. Articles must explicitly present the data sources and measures/indicators 

used for measuring the technological performance. 

3. Articles must assess the forecasting performance of the utilized 

techniques using a hold-out sample and an error measure so that 

technique credibility and adequacy can be demonstrated. 

The full text review filtered out 302 of the 327 remaining articles, giving a final 

collection of 25 articles eligible to be considered for detailed analysis. 

2.3 Assessing the quality of studies 

The eligible articles were validated to finalize the selection of articles to be 

included in the analysis. To do this, the primary author verified the selected 

articles for quality and relevance by re-examining the entire content of each 

article according to the inclusion, exclusion, and eligibility criteria and taking 

into account the relevance of each article to each pre-defined research 

question. Then, the entire set of selected articles was reviewed again by the 

second author independently against the same criteria to avoid bias in 

selection. After the validation process, it was confirmed that all 25 articles met 

the criteria and were qualified to be included in the detailed analysis. 

2.4 Summarizing the evidence 



15 

 

We aggregated and summarized the data extracted from the selected articles 

to facilitate interpreting our findings, including details on each method used, in 

the next section. Table 3 surveys the contexts of the articles included in the 

SLR, describing the authors, country of the study, types of technologies 

targeted, methods used, and sources of data. It highlights that most of the 

studies have more than one author and among them, a few studies were 

conducted by the researchers from multiple countries, signaling ongoing 

international collaboration efforts in this field. The numbers of papers in the 

included studies from different countries is presented in Figure 2. As it shows, 

the United States stands out among the total of 12 countries with 14 papers. 

The next major source of papers was the United Kingdom with 4 papers, 

followed by mainland China with 3 papers. 

 



16 

 

Table 3: Some key properties of the articles included in this review 

Authors Country Technology Trend extrapolation methods  Data source 

Inman et al. (2005) US U.S. fighter jets Linear regression Dataset from a previous paper 

Inman et al. (2006) US U.S. fighter jets Linear regression Dataset from a previous paper 

Yoon and Lee 
(2008) 

South Korea, UK Various technologies by 
industry ( i.e., bio-
technology, information 
technology, etc.) 

Bass model (S-shaped curve) The United States Patent and 
Trademark Office (USPTO) 
website database 

Lamb et al. (2010) US Commercial airplane Linear regression, logistic (Pearl) 
curve (S-shaped curve) 

Datasets from company 
websites, reports, and aircraft 
interest websites 

Widodo et al. (2011) Indonesia Biomedical technology Linear regression, polynomial 
regression, Holt-Winters 
exponential smoothing (Winter's 
exponential smoothing), Holt's 
exponential smoothing, support 
vector regression (SVR) 

PubMed website database 

Yuan et al. (2011) Taiwan Organic light emitting diodes 
(OLEDs) 

Bass model (S-shaped curve), 
Gompertz curve (S-shaped curve), 
GM(1,1) grey model 

Historical annual power 
efficiency of OLED data 

Bailey et al. (2012) US Sixty-two different 
technologies 

Moore’s law (exponential growth 
law), Wright’s law (experience 
curve), Goddard’s law (experience 
curve), Moore’s law random walk, 
Goddard’s law random walk, 
Moore-Goddard’s law random walk 

Performance Curve Database 
at http://pcdb.santafe.edu 



17 

 

Authors Country Technology Trend extrapolation methods  Data source 

Lim et al. (2012) US Wireless communication Linear regression Datasets from previous studies 

Sood et al. (2012) US 25 different technologies 
selected from six distinct 
markets: automotive motive 
battery technologies, data 
transfer, desktop printers, 
display monitors, desktop 
memory, and external 
lighting technologies 

Bass model (S-shaped curve), 
Gompertz curve (S-shaped curve), 
Kryder's law (exponential growth 
law), logistic (Pearl) curve (S-
shaped curve), Moore’s law 
(exponential growth law), diff reg 
method (linear regression), Gupta 
model, step and wait (SAW) model, 
tobit II model 

Primarily from white papers, 
technical journals, industry 
reports, museum records, 
press announcements, and 
main companies’ timelines. 

Smith and Agrawal 
(2015) 

US Data processing technology, 
including three classes, 
which are artificial 
intelligence (AI), database 
and file management or data 
structures (DFMDS), and 
generic control systems or 
specific applications 
(GCSSA). 

Autoregressive integrated moving 
averages (ARIMA), Holt-Winters 
exponential smoothing 

UC Berkley Fung Institute 
patent database 

Farmer and Lafond 
(2016) 

UK 53 different technologies Geometric random walk with drift The Santa-Fe Performance 
Curve DataBase 

Nagula (2016) India Fuel cell technology in hybrid 
and electric vehicles 

Gompertz curve (S-shaped curve), 
logistic (Pearl) curve (S-shaped 
curve), Weibull model (S-shaped 
curve) 

The United States Patent and 
Trademark Office (USPTO) 
website database 

Cho and Anderson 
(2017) 

US Main battle tank (MBT) Linear regression Dataset from a previous paper 



18 

 

Authors Country Technology Trend extrapolation methods  Data source 

You et al. (2017) China, Canada Coherent light generator Autoregressive integrated moving 
averages (ARIMA), Bass model (S-
shaped curve) 

The United States Patent and 
Trademark Office (USPTO) 
website database 

Zhang et al. (2017) US Concrete skyscraper 
technology 

Logistic (Pearl) curve (S-shaped 
curve), Lotka–Volterra equations, 
Moore’s law (exponential growth 
law) 

The Global Tall Building 
Database of the CTBUH 
(2017) 

Zhang et al. (2018) US Passenger airplane (system 
technology), turbofan aero-
engine (component 
technology) 

Logistic (Pearl) curve (S-shaped 
curve), Lotka–Volterra equations, 
Moore’s law (exponential growth 
law) 

Datasets from trade journals, 
Wikipedia, etc. 

Xin et al. (2019) China 3,651 different technologies Gated recurrent unit (GRU), Long 
short-term memory (LSTM), 
LSTNet, support vector regression 
(SVR), Conv-RNN (DNN as 
decoder), Conv-RNN-sep (multiple 
separate DNNs as decoder) 

The United States Patent and 
Trademark Office (USPTO) 
website database, The UCR 
Time Series Classification 
Archive 

Zhang et al. (2019a) US Central processing unit 
(CPU), passenger airplane 

Lotka–Volterra equations, Moore’s 
law (exponential growth law) 

Wikipedia (CPU); 100 Years of 
Commercial Aviation, Aircraft 
Engines of the World 1970, 
and Jane's Aero-Engines 
(passenger airplane) 

Zhang et al. (2019b) US Passenger airplane fuel 
efficiency 

Logistic (Pearl) curve (S-shaped 
curve), Lotka–Volterra equations, 
Moore’s law (exponential growth 
law) 

Jane’s All the World’s Aircraft, 
Wikipedia 



19 

 

Authors Country Technology Trend extrapolation methods  Data source 

Sevilla and Riedel 
(2020) 

UK, US Quantum computing Linear regression Data reported in the previous 
39 papers 

Gui and Xu (2021) China Robotics Autoregressive integrated moving 
averages (ARIMA), long short-term 
memory (LSTM), 2-layer-LSTM, 
EEMD-LSTM (EEMD: ensemble 
empirical mode decomposition) 

SCI paper data from the Web 
of Science database 

Meng et al. (2021) UK, Italy Energy technologies 
including nuclear electricity, 
onshore wind, offshore wind, 
PV module, alkaline 
electrolysis cells, proton 
exchange membrane 
electrolysis cells 

Moore’s law (exponential growth 
law), Wright’s law (experience 
curve) 

Datasets from multiple 
databases (e.g., International 
Renewable Energy Agency 
[IRENA]), research articles, 
and research organization 
reports. 

Oliveira et al. (2021) Brazil, Germany, 
Chile 

Welding technologies 
including cold metal transfer 
(CMT) and gas metal arc 
welding (GMAW) 

Autoregressive integrated moving 
averages (ARIMA), automatic 
ARIMA, simple exponential 
smoothing, Holt's exponential 
smoothing, Holt-Winters 
exponential smoothing, Baranyi 
model (S-shaped curve), Gompertz 
curve (S-shaped curve), logistic 
(Pearl) curve (S-shaped curve), 
exponential function (exponential 
growth law), Richards' curve 
(generalized logistic) (S-shaped 
curve) 

Derwent Innovation Index (DII) 
database 



20 

 

Authors Country Technology Trend extrapolation methods  Data source 

Howell et al. (2021) US Space exploration 
technology 

Autoregressive integrated moving 
averages (ARIMA), Autoregressive 
Integrated Moving Average with 
Exogenous variables (ARIMAX) 

Datasets from multiple public 
sources 

Ray et al. (2022) India Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) 
technology 

GM(1,1) grey model and its 
improved version 

The Cotton Advisory Board of 
India 

 



21 

 

 

 

Figure 2: Number of papers and their origin countries 

 

2.5 Interpreting the findings 

In this step, the two research questions defined in the Introduction are 

addressed. 

2.5.1 Research question one 

Q1: What does existing research provide about the implementation of quantitative 

trend extrapolation methods for technology forecasting? 

We discuss the 25 articles that were selected according to the indicated 

criteria next. 

Inman et al. (2005, 2006) used two different techniques, multiple linear 

regression and TFDEA (technology forecasting using data envelopment 

analysis), to predict dates of the first flights of U.S. fighter aircraft. They took 

the 26 fighter jet data set for the period of 1944–1982 from a previous 

0

2

4

6

8

10

12

14

16

N
um

be
r 

of
 p

ap
er

s



22 

 

publication by Martino (1993) and used the 19 aircraft introduced between 

1944 and 1960 to forecast the first flight dates of the jets between 1961 and 

1982. Conclusions were then drawn based on their forecasting performance. 

Yoon and Lee (2008) fit the Bass growth curve model to the patent 

application data collected from the United States Patent and Trademark Office 

(USPTO) database to forecast the future number of patents in nine categories 

of industries and compare the forecasting accuracy of each industry. For each 

industry, 35 time-series data points from 1965 to 1999 were retrieved. The 

model was trained on the first 30 data points between 1965 and 1994 and 

tested on the remaining 5 from 1995 to 1999 to compute the forecasting error. 

The results showed that, overall, the manufacturing sectors, such as the 

biotechnology and information technology sectors, worked better than the 

service sectors when applying patent-based technology forecasting. 

Lamb et al. (2010) assembled airplane model data from aircraft interest 

websites, company websites, and relevant reports to forecast the first 

commercialization years of long-range passenger aircraft using simple and 

multiple linear regression models as well as the logistic (Pearl) curve. The data 

covered the first customer flight dates of 24 commercial airplane models over 

the period of 1965–2007. The first 16 models were chosen for training, while 

the latter eight were for model evaluation. It was found that two airplane 

parameters, maximum flight range and composite material percentage of the 

airplane structure, were significant predictors. In addition, the three technology 

forecasting methods appeared to be useful for forecasting passenger airplane 

technology commercialization. 



23 

 

Widodo et al. (2011) analyzed publication data using time series analysis 

to forecast trends in the frequency of technological terms dealing with apnea, 

such as movement disorders and cystic fibrosis, in biomedical technology. 

They queried the data from 1965–2010 using the PubMed database, resulting 

in 45 datasets of journal articles, where the first 35 datasets were selected for 

training and the latter 10 for testing. The models used included statistical time 

series models, such as Holt's exponential smoothing and Winter's exponential 

smoothing, and machine learning techniques, such as linear regression, 

polynomial regression, and support vector regression (SVR). The study found, 

after comparing the accuracy of the models, that machine learning techniques 

with the parameters properly initialized could achieve better performance than 

statistical time series models. 

Yuan et al. (2011) utilized the GM(1,1) grey model, Bass model, and 

Gompertz curve to predict the power efficiency of white organic light-emitting 

diodes (OLED) and compare their prediction accuracy. The yearly power 

efficiency data from 1999 to 2006, a total of 10 observations, were collected 

and divided into model fitting (1999-2002) and testing (2003-2006) subsets. 

The study arrived at the conclusion that the GM(1,1) grey model had better 

forecasting performance than the Gompertz curve and Bass model. 

Bailey et al. (2012) used the price and production data of sixty-two different 

technologies, the majority of which are associated with the energy, chemical, 

and information technology industries, from the Performance Curve Database, 

an online performance curves database (https://pcdb.santafe.edu/), to 

examine the relative forecasting accuracy of six different models across those 



24 

 

technologies. The six models include Goddard’s law, Moore’s law, Wright’s 

law, and three newly proposed models: Goddard’s law random walk, Moore’s 

law random walk, and Moore-Goddard’s law random walk. The study found 

that production was a more accurate predictor of prices over longer time 

horizons than time, suggesting a Wright’s law advantage compared to Moore’s 

law. 

Lim et al. (2012) applied the linear regression and TFDEA models to a data 

set of wireless communication technologies to forecast their commercialization 

years between 2001 and 2011. The data set was collected from the former 

research and extended to 4G mobile technologies for an updated analysis. It 

contained 23 records of different technologies, of which 19 were used for fitting 

and the remaining 4 for out-of-sample validation. The results indicated that the 

TFDEA model was likely to give more accurate predictions than the linear 

regression based on the metric of mean absolute deviation (MAD). 

Sood et al. (2012) developed a new model, step and wait (SAW), and 

compared its predictive performance with that of traditional models, including 

Moore’s law, Kryder's law, the logistic (Pearl) curve, the Bass model, the 

Gompertz curve, the Nave approach, the diff reg method, the Gupta model, 

and the tobit II model, for 25 technologies across six markets: automotive 

battery, data transfer, desktop memory, desktop printers, display monitors, and 

external lighting. In their work, each technology's most important attribute to 

customers was used as its performance measure. The data, primarily gathered 

from journals, press releases, and industry reports over several decades, were 

divided into two subsets for training and hold-out sample testing, for which the 



25 

 

last five years of data were used. The analysis showed that the proposed SAW 

method, in comparison to the other approaches, had a lower prediction error. 

Smith and Agrawal (2015) fit two time series forecasting models, Holt-

Winters exponential smoothing (HWES) and autoregressive integrated moving 

average (ARIMA), to the patent data collected by the UC Berkley Fung 

Institute. Three patent groups, Database and File Management or Data 

Structures (DFMDS), Generic Control Systems or Specific Applications 

(GCSSA), and Artificial Intelligence (AI), from 1996 to 2013, were selected to 

be analyzed. The data set was split so that the validation set consisted of the 

last 15 months of data. Given the results, it was observed that all the models 

were able to yield acceptable forecasting results, with no one model performing 

best on all data sets. 

Farmer and Lafond (2016) proposed a new model, the geometric random 

walk with drift, building on Moore's law, and applied it to data for 53 different 

technologies extracted from the Santa Fe Institute’s Performance Curve 

DataBase (pcdb.santafe.edu). The model can give forecasts with prediction 

intervals for the cost improvement of a technology. Hindcasting, a form of cross 

validation, was used to fit and validate the model with a moving window 

approach based on the six most recent years of data for all technologies. To 

demonstrate the method, they made forecasts for solar photovoltaic (PV) 

modules and showed that the unit cost of a PV module is expected to continue 

decreasing at around a 10% annual rate, although there is a 5% chance that 

the price in 2030 will be higher than the price in 2013. 

Nagula (2016) forecast the advancement of fuel cell technology in hybrid 



26 

 

and electric vehicles using patent data and the Gompertz growth curve. The 

patent data associated with fuel cell technology from 1976 to 2012 came from 

the USPTO database. Three growth curve models were used in the analysis, 

and after comparing their forecasting performances, the Gompertz curve did 

better than the logistic (Pearl) curve and the Weibull model in forecasting fuel 

cell technology. 

Cho and Anderson (2017) employed a data set of main battle tanks (MBTs) 

used in a previous paper and the methods of multiple linear regression and 

TFDEA to predict the MBTs’ release year. The data set included 38 MBT 

models launched from 1941 to 1994, with 27 of them from 1941 to 1978 used 

for the training set and 11 from 1980 to 1994 for the hold-out test set. The study 

found that the linear regression model, using the four predictor variables of 

gun, horsepower, battle weight, and number of crew, best forecast the release 

year of MBT models with a mean absolute error (MAE) of 3.3 years. 

You et al. (2017) applied the Bass and ARIMA models to study patent 

evolution for the technology of coherent light generators and compared both 

models' forecasting performance. They collected patent data for the period of 

1976-2014 from the USPTO website. The first 372 months (from April 1976 to 

March 2007) of patent data were used for model fitting and the remaining 93 

months (from April 2007 to December 2014) for testing. The results revealed 

that ARIMA performed better than Bass in forecasting the patent counts. More 

specifically, the models ARIMA(0,1,1) and ARIMA(0,2,3) achieved the best 

forecasting performance for the monthly and cumulative patent counts, 

respectively. 



27 

 

Zhang et al. (2017) fit the Lotka–Volterra model to concrete skyscraper 

height data during 1950–1996 from the Global Tall Building Database of the 

CTBUH (https://www.ctbuh.org) to forecast the development of concrete 

skyscraper technology. The prediction accuracy of the model on the hold-out 

sample was compared with that of the logistic curve and Moore's law. The 

authors concluded that the evolution of concrete skyscraper technology can be 

affected by the evolution of its component concrete technology, as the Lotka–

Volterra model significantly improved prediction accuracy compared to Moore's 

law and the logistic curve. 

Zhang et al. (2018) simplified the Lotka–Volterra equations and used the 

simplified equations to predict the performance of the passenger airplane (a 

system technology) and the turbofan aeroengine (a component technology). 

Their model took into account the interactions between the system technology 

and the component technology for modeling technology evolution. They 

collected the past performance data of the two technologies during 1960–2010 

from various sources, such as trade journals, Wikipedia, etc. They fitted the 

model to the data during 1960–1998 and used the subsequent data as the 

hold-out sample to validate it. To assess the predictive performance of the 

simplified Lotka–Volterra equations, the logistic curve and Moore's law were 

also fitted to the same data for comparison. The results showed that the Lotka–

Volterra based model outperformed the other models in predicting the hold-out 

sample. 

Xin et al. (2019) devised two models, which they called Conv-RNN and 

Conv-RNN-sep, to forecast trends in patents using the USPTO patent data 



28 

 

across different technologies. The patent data series was split into the training 

data and test data with a sliding window approach. The models were comprised 

of three layers, a convolution neural network (CNN) layer, a recurrent neural 

network (RNN) layer, and a deep neural network (DNN) layer. They were 

trained and tested and their performances on the test set were compared with 

those of other algorithms including the gated recurrent unit (GRU), long short-

term memory (LSTM), support vector regression (SVR), and long- and short-

term time-series network (LSTNet) algorithms. The results showed that both 

models had better performances in forecasting accuracy and consistency than 

the other models. It was found that the CNN layer contributed greatly to the two 

algorithms. 

Zhang et al. (2019a) gathered CPU transistor count data during 1970-2018 

from Wikipedia and fit Moore’s Law to the data from 1970 to 2014 to forecast 

the hold-out samples from 2014 to 2018. The forecasts involved the prediction 

intervals that were generated with the bootstrap, or resampling, method. The 

authors also collected performance data of passenger airplanes from their 

previous publications during 1960-2008 and fit the Lotka–Volterra equations to 

the data from 1960 to 2004 to produce point forecasts and prediction intervals 

for 2004-2008. In these two cases, the hold-out testing revealed that their 

method successfully forecast the development of both technologies, as all the 

actual data in the hold-out samples were covered by the prediction intervals 

generated. 

Zhang et al. (2019b) forecast passenger airplane performance using the 

Lotka–Volterra model and performance data during 1970-2017 compiled from 



29 

 

Jane’s All the World’s Aircraft as well as Wikipedia. Their method took into 

account the interaction of the system, which is passenger airplane fuel 

efficiency, and its three components, which are aerodynamics, aero-engine 

fuel efficiency, and weight reduction as these components were found to 

significantly affect the fuel efficiency of passenger aircraft. The model was 

trained on the data during 1970-2000 and tested on the 2016 data as a hold-

out sample. Their analysis showed that the performance of the Lotka–Volterra 

model exceeded that of the logistic curve models and Moore’s law in prediction 

accuracy. 

Sevilla and Riedel (2020) collected a dataset of quantum computer systems 

from 39 papers in the last two decades to develop an index, the generalized 

logical qubit (GLQ), that combines the two metrics widely reported in the 

literature, physical qubits and gate error rate, to measure and forecast progress 

in quantum computing technology. The trends in the best performance on the 

two metrics were extrapolated to predict the trend in GLQs using linear 

regression (LR) on the data in log space. The LR model used was validated 

using leave-one-out validation and rolling validation with different time spans. 

It was predicted that proof-of-concept fault-tolerant computation based on 

superconductor technology was unlikely (less than 5% chance) to exist before 

2026 and that quantum devices capable of factoring RSA-2048 were unlikely 

(less than 5% chance) to be developed before 2039. 

Gui and Xu (2021) constructed a combination model named EEMD-LSTM 

and applied it to publication data to forecast the development of robotics 

technology. The model's first layer, EEMD or Ensemble Empirical Mode 



30 

 

Decomposition, was used to break down the data into multiple components, 

and the second layer, LSTM, separately forecast the decomposed 

components. The forecasting results were then combined to form the final 

forecasts. The authors collected the robotics-related articles during 1996–2019 

from the database of Web of Science and distributed the collected papers 

across eight primary areas of robotics study that were obtained through a text 

classification model. The yearly data on the number of papers in each research 

area were further split into the training data (from 1996 to 2016) as well as the 

test data (from 2017 to 2019). After comparing the forecasting performance of 

the proposed EEMD-LSTM on the test data with that of the ARIMA, LSTM, and 

2-Layer LSTM models, they concluded that the model proposed was superior 

to the other methods in terms of lower mean and variance of the prediction 

errors, and thus deep learning models can perform better in technology 

forecasting. 

Meng et al. (2021) utilized two types of approaches, expert elicitation 

methods and data-driven models (devised based on Moore’s and Wright’s 

laws), to generate technology cost forecasts for six different energy 

technologies and compared the forecasts against realized data to evaluate the 

methods' predictive power. The cost data and the data on installed capacity or 

cumulative production of the technologies over time used to carry out the 

estimation were obtained from various sources, such as the International 

Renewable Energy Agency, research articles, and research reports. The 

authors found that overall, the forecasted values from data-driven models were 

closer to the observed costs than those from expert elicitation methods. 



31 

 

However, all the methods used tended to predict slower cost reductions, 

implying a slower rate of technological improvement, than actually occurred in 

the technologies studied. 

Oliveira et al. (2021) used the patent data from Derwent Innovation, a 

patent research platform, to derive the technology trend for two welding 

technologies, gas metal arc welding (GMAW) and cold metal transfer (CMT). 

Nine methods across the time series models and growth curves, namely 

ARIMA and Auto-ARIMA, Holt-Winters exponential smoothing, Holt's 

exponential smoothing, simple exponential smoothing, the Baranyi model, the 

Gompertz curve, the logistic (Pearl) curve, the exponential curve, and 

Richards' curve, were used and compared based on their forecasting 

performance for the last three years (2017-2019) of data for each technology. 

The findings indicated that among all the methods, Richards' curve gave the 

most accurate forecasts for CMT technology, while for GMAW technology, the 

forecasts from the Auto-ARIMA method were closest to the actual values. The 

study concluded that mathematical modeling could precisely predict the 

inflection points and the maturity phases of each technology. 

Howell et al. (2021) applied ARIMA models and its extension, ARIMAX, to 

investigate improvements in space exploration technology and compared their 

forecasting performances. They collected data on spacecraft lifespan, which 

was used as a metric for improvement, for deep space missions from the 

beginning up to the present day. The data set was divided into two groups, with 

85% used as a training set and 15% used as a test set. Their analysis 

concluded that ARIMAX models achieved better performance than ARIMA 



32 

 

models in predicting improvements in spacecraft lifespan. 

Ray et al. (2022) forecasted the development of Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) 

technology in India using the yearly data for Bt cotton yield during 2002-2017 

obtained from the Cotton Advisory Board of India. A GM(1,1) grey model and 

its improved version were fitted to the first eleven observations for training and 

tested on the remaining four for model evaluation. After comparing the 

forecasting accuracy of both models, they found that the improved GM(1,1) 

grey model performed better for forecasting the Bt cotton yield in India. 

2.5.2 Research question two 

Q2: What are the quantitative trend extrapolation methods that have been adopted 

and what are the technologies where they have been applied? 

We grouped the quantitative trend extrapolation methods found in the 

selected studies into four main classes: growth curve, machine learning, time 

series, and other, which includes the methods not belonging to any of the other 

three classes. Table 4 lists the methods, method classes, authors of the articles 

that used these method classes, and the technologies each method was 

applied to. As can be seen from Figure 3, growth curves were the most used 

method class, followed by machine learning, time series, and other. The 

frequency of occurrence of the methods by classes across years is presented 

in Figure 4. It indicates that growth curves remain popular as a technology 

forecasting technique and, in particular, machine learning approaches have 

recently gained popularity with researchers and increased their share of the 

total from 2019 to 2022. Table 5 shows the breakdown of the methods used in 



33 

 

the reviewed articles. The table contains information about the specific 

methods assigned to each method class, the number of articles using the 

methods, and their percentage of the total set of articles. Note that the sum of 

article counts exceeds the total number of the included articles because articles 

using multiple methods were listed multiple times.



34 

 

Table 4: Summary of the method classes and forecasted technologies used in the included studies 

Method class Method Technology Authors 

Growth curve Moore’s law (exponential growth law) 25 different technologies selected from six distinct 
markets: automotive motive battery technologies, 
data transfer, desktop printers, display monitors, 
desktop memory, and external lighting 
technologies 

Sood et al. (2012) 

  
Central processing unit (CPU), passenger 
airplane 

Zhang et al. (2019a) 

  
Concrete skyscraper technology Zhang et al. (2017) 

  
Energy technologies including nuclear electricity, 
onshore wind, offshore wind, PV module, alkaline 
electrolysis cells, proton exchange membrane 
electrolysis cells 

Meng et al. (2021) 

  
Passenger airplane Zhang et al. (2018) 

  
Passenger airplane fuel efficiency Zhang et al. (2019b) 

  
Sixty-two different technologies Bailey et al. (2012) 

 
Logistic (Pearl) curve (S-shaped curve) 25 different technologies selected from six distinct 

markets: automotive motive battery technologies, 
data transfer, desktop printers, display monitors, 
desktop memory, and external lighting 
technologies 

Sood et al. (2012) 

  
Commercial airplane Lamb et al. (2010) 

  
Concrete skyscraper technology Zhang et al. (2017) 

  
Passenger airplane Zhang et al. (2018) 

  
Passenger airplane fuel efficiency Zhang et al. (2019b) 



35 

 

Method class Method Technology Authors 
  

Welding technologies including cold metal 
transfer (CMT) and gas metal arc welding 
(GMAW) 

Oliveira et al. (2021) 

 
Bass model (S-shaped curve) 25 different technologies selected from six distinct 

markets: automotive motive battery technologies, 
data transfer, desktop printers, display monitors, 
desktop memory, and external lighting 
technologies 

Sood et al. (2012) 

  
Coherent light generator You et al. (2017) 

  
Organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) Yuan et al. (2011) 

  
Various technologies by industries ( i.e., bio-
technology, information technology, etc.) 

Yoon and Lee (2008) 

 
Gompertz curve (S-shaped curve) 25 different technologies selected from six distinct 

markets: automotive motive battery technologies, 
data transfer, desktop printers, display monitors, 
desktop memory, and external lighting 
technologies 

Sood et al. (2012) 

  
Fuel cell technology in hybrid and electric 
vehicles 

Nagula (2016) 

  
Organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) Yuan et al. (2011) 

  
Welding technologies including cold metal 
transfer (CMT) and gas metal arc welding 
(GMAW) 

Oliveira et al. (2021) 

 
Wright’s law (experience curve) Energy technologies including nuclear electricity, 

onshore wind, offshore wind, PV module, alkaline 
electrolysis cells, proton exchange membrane 
electrolysis cells 

Meng et al. (2021) 

  
Sixty-two different technologies Bailey et al. (2012) 



36 

 

Method class Method Technology Authors 
 

Baranyi model (S-shaped curve) Welding technologies including cold metal 
transfer (CMT) and gas metal arc welding 
(GMAW) 

Oliveira et al. (2021) 

 
Exponential function (exponential 
growth law) 

Welding technologies including cold metal 
transfer (CMT) and gas metal arc welding 
(GMAW) 

Oliveira et al. (2021) 

 
Goddard’s law (experience curve) Sixty-two different technologies Bailey et al. (2012) 

 
Kryder's law (exponential growth law) 25 different technologies selected from six distinct 

markets: automotive motive battery technologies, 
data transfer, desktop printers, display monitors, 
desktop memory, and external lighting 
technologies 

Sood et al. (2012) 

 
Richards' curve (generalized logistic) 
(S-shaped curve) 

Welding technologies including cold metal 
transfer (CMT) and gas metal arc welding 
(GMAW) 

Oliveira et al. (2021) 

Machine Learning Linear regression Biomedical technology Widodo et al. (2011) 
  

Commercial airplane Lamb et al. (2010) 
  

Main battle tank (MBT) Cho and Anderson (2017) 
  

Quantum computing Sevilla and Riedel (2020) 
  

U.S. fighter jets Inman et al. (2005, 2006) 
  

Wireless communication Lim et al. (2012) 
 

Long short-term memory (LSTM) 3,651 different technologies Xin et al. (2019) 
  

Robotics Gui and Xu (2021) 
 

Support vector regression (SVR) 3,651 different technologies Xin et al. (2019) 
  

Biomedical technology Widodo et al. (2011) 
 

2-layer-LSTM Robotics Gui and Xu (2021) 



37 

 

Method class Method Technology Authors 
 

Conv-RNN (DNN as decoder) 3,651 different technologies Xin et al. (2019) 
 

Conv-RNN-sep (multiple separate 
DNNs as Decoder) 

3,651 different technologies Xin et al. (2019) 

 
Diff reg method (linear regression) 25 different technologies selected from six distinct 

markets: automotive motive battery technologies, 
data transfer, desktop printers, display monitors, 
desktop memory, and external lighting 
technologies 

Sood et al. (2012) 

 
Gated recurrent unit(GRU) 3,651 different technologies Xin et al. (2019) 

 
Long- and short-term Time-series 
network (LSTNet) 

3,651 different technologies Xin et al. (2019) 

 
EEMD-LSTM (EEMD: ensemble 
empirical mode decomposition) 

Robotics Gui and Xu (2021) 

 
polynomial regression Biomedical technology Widodo et al. (2011) 

Time Series Autoregressive integrated moving 
averages (ARIMA) 

Coherent light generator You et al. (2017) 
  

Data processing technology, including three 
classes, which are artificial intelligence (AI), 
database and file management or data structures 
(DFMDS), and generic control systems or specific 
applications (GCSSA). 

Smith and Agrawal (2015) 

  
Robotics Gui and Xu (2021) 

  Space exploration technology Howell et al. (2021) 
  

Welding technologies including cold metal 
transfer (CMT) and gas metal arc welding 
(GMAW) 

Oliveira et al. (2021) 

 
Holt-Winters exponential smoothing 
(Winter's exponential smoothing) 

Biomedical technology Widodo et al. (2011) 



38 

 

Method class Method Technology Authors 
  

Data processing technology, including three 
classes, which are artificial intelligence (AI), 
database and file management or data structures 
(DFMDS), and generic control systems or specific 
applications (GCSSA). 

Smith and Agrawal (2015) 

  
Welding technologies including cold metal 
transfer (CMT) and gas metal arc welding 
(GMAW) 

Oliveira et al. (2021) 

 
Automatic ARIMA Welding technologies including cold metal 

transfer (CMT) and gas metal arc welding 
(GMAW) 

Oliveira et al. (2021) 

 
Geometric random walk with drift 53 different technologies Farmer and Lafond (2016) 

 GM(1,1) grey model Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) technology Ray et al. (2022) 
  

Organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) Yuan et al. (2011) 
 

Goddard’s law random walk Sixty-two different technologies Bailey et al. (2012) 
 

Holt's exponential smoothing Biomedical technology Widodo et al. (2011) 
  

Welding technologies including cold metal 
transfer (CMT) and gas metal arc welding 
(GMAW) 

Oliveira et al. (2021) 

 
Moore’s law random walk Sixty-two different technologies Bailey et al. (2012) 

 
Moore-Goddard’s law random walk Sixty-two different technologies Bailey et al. (2012) 

 
Simple exponential smoothing Welding technologies including cold metal 

transfer (CMT) and gas metal arc welding 
(GMAW) 

Oliveira et al. (2021) 

Other Lotka–Volterra equations Central processing unit (CPU), passenger 
airplane 

Zhang et al. (2019a) 



39 

 

Method class Method Technology Authors 
  

Concrete skyscraper technology Zhang et al. (2017) 
  

Passenger airplane Zhang et al. (2018) 
  

Passenger airplane fuel efficiency Zhang et al. (2019b) 
 

Gupta model 25 different technologies selected from six distinct 
markets: automotive motive battery technologies, 
data transfer, desktop printers, display monitors, 
desktop memory, and external lighting 
technologies 

Sood et al. (2012) 

 
Step and wait (SAW) model 25 different technologies selected from six distinct 

markets: automotive motive battery technologies, 
data transfer, desktop printers, display monitors, 
desktop memory, and external lighting 
technologies 

Sood et al. (2012) 

 
tobit II model 25 different technologies selected from six distinct 

markets: automotive motive battery technologies, 
data transfer, desktop printers, display monitors, 
desktop memory, and external lighting 
technologies 

Sood et al. (2012) 

 

 



40 

 

 

Figure 3: Distribution of method classes 

 

 

 

Figure 4: Distribution of method classes across the years 

 

 

38.9%

26.4%

25.0%

9.7%

Growth Curve

Machine Learning

Time Series

Other

0

2

4

6

8

10

12

2003-2006 2007-2010 2011-2014 2015-2018 2019-2022

Co
un

t o
f u

se
d 

m
et

ho
ds

Year group

Growth Curve

Machine Learning

Time Series

Other



41 

 

Table 5: Breakdown in the methods in terms of the number of their occurrences in 
the included articles 

 

Methods   Article count Percentage 

Growth Curve 
 28 38.9%  
S-shaped curve 16 22.2% 

 
Exponential growth law   9 12.5% 

 
Experience curve   3 4.2% 

Machine Learning   19 26.4%  
Linear Regression   9 12.5% 

 
LSTM   3 4.2% 

 
SVR   2 2.8% 

 
Conv-RNN   1 1.4% 

 
Conv-RNN-sep   1 1.4% 

 
EEMD-LSTM   1 1.4% 

 
GRU   1 1.4% 

  LSTNet   1 1.4% 

Time Series 
 18 25.0%  
Exponential smoothing   6 8.3% 

 
ARIMA   6 8.3% 

 
GM(1,1) grey model   2 2.8% 

 
Geometric random walk with drift   1 1.4% 

 
Goddard’s law random walk   1 1.4% 

 
Moore’s law random walk   1 1.4% 

 
Moore-Goddard’s law random walk   1 1.4% 

Other   7 9.7%  
Lotka–Volterra equations   4 5.6% 

 
Gupta model   1 1.4% 

 
Step and wait (SAW) model   1 1.4% 

  Tobit II model   1 1.4% 

 

 

In the following, we review various quantitative trend extrapolation 

approaches presented in the studies. 

 Growth Curve 

Growth curves are frequently used in technology forecasting to model the 

behavior of product or technology performance over time (Cho and Daim, 



42 

 

2013). The growth curves used in the included articles can be classified into S-

shaped curve (or S-curve), exponential growth law, and experience curve, 

based on the shapes of the curves. As shown in Table 5, the most widely used 

shape was the S-curves. 

S-curves have long been used in biology to estimate measures such as 

population changes and bacterial growth over time. Researchers have recently 

extended their use to analyze technology life cycles and project the path of 

technological evolution. Similar to a product life cycle, an S-shaped curve 

pattern represents a pattern of growth that begins with slow development, 

followed by a rapid increase until reaching a maximum steepness at its 

inflection point, and subsequently a slowdown and return to minimal growth. S-

curves encompass the logistic (Pearl) curve, Gompertz curve, Bass model, 

Richards' curve (generalized logistic), and many others, and can be classified 

into three different types based on the curve's behavior around the inflection 

point: symmetric, asymmetric, and flexible (Meade and Islam, 1998). 

Symmetrical S-curves, such as the logistic (Pearl) curve, have a fixed inflection 

point about which the rise and fall are symmetrical. Asymmetrical curves, such 

as Gompertz, also have a fixed inflection point but typically it is less than the 

midpoint between the upper and lower limits of growth. In flexible curves, such 

as the Weibull model, the inflection points are floating and some of them are 

less than the midpoint while others are greater. 

Among different S-shaped curves, the most used two in technology 

forecasting are the logistic (Pearl) and the Gompertz (Martino, 2003). The 

equation for the logistic (Pearl) is given by: 



43 

 

. 

The Gompertz is given by: 

. 

In both, Yt is the performance measurement at time t, L is the upper limit to the 

technological progress, a and b, respectively, are the scale and shape 

parameters determining the location and shape of the curve, and e = 2.718... 

is Euler's number. For further details about various S-shaped curves, refer to 

Meade and Islam (1998) and Young (1993). 

The general form of the exponential growth law can be expressed as follows 

(Tague et al., 1981). 

 

where f(t) represents the performance measurement at time t, a and b are 

constants, and e is Euler's number. 

One model that has a mathematically equivalent form as above and has 

been used extensively in the computer industry to predict the performance of 

computer chips is Moore's law, which emerged in 1965 when Gordon Moore, 

the co-founder of Intel and Fairchild Semiconductor, discovered that in the 

years between 1959 and 1965, the component count on cutting-edge 

integrated circuits had about doubled annually (Moore, 1965). He estimated 

that similar exponential progress would last for the next decade or longer. Over 

the years, a technology has been said to follow the generalized Moore’s law 

when it improves exponentially with time (Sood et al., 2012; Nagy et al., 2013), 



44 

 

and many researchers have applied the generalized Moore’s law to study 

technological improvements for various technologies (Berleant et al., 2019; 

Farmer and Lafond, 2016; Magee et al., 2016; Nagy et al., 2013). A derivative 

of Moore’s law, Kryder’s law, is also an exponential growth law (Sood et al., 

2012). It was proposed by Mark Kryder to predict a 13-month doubling period 

for storage capacity of computer disks (Walter, 2005). 

The experience curve, also referred to as the learning curve, power law, 

and Wright’s law, is an extensively used method in the literature to analyze the 

relationship between the cost of a technology and factors such as the 

cumulatively installed capacity or cumulative volume of production. It was 

originally observed by Wright (1936). Its basic form is as below (Alberth, 2008). 

 

In this equation, f(X) represents the cost of a technology, X can be the 

cumulative number of units produced or the capacity cumulatively installed, 

and a and b are constants. Another concept that has a similar power law 

relationship is Goddard's law, which was proposed by Goddard (1982) and 

uses annual production rather than cumulative production to explain the cost 

reduction of a technology. 

The experience curve and exponential growth law have been broadly used 

in the literature. For instance, Bailey et al. (2012) fit Moore's law, Wright's law, 

and Goddard's law to the price and production data of sixty-two technologies 

mostly related to the energy, chemical, and information technology industries 

to forecast their performances. Also, Meng et al. (2021) utilized two types of 



45 

 

approaches, expert elicitation methods and data-driven models (derived from 

Moore’s and Wright’s laws), to generate technology cost forecasts for six 

different energy technologies including nuclear electricity, onshore wind, 

offshore wind, PV module, alkaline electrolysis cells, and proton exchange 

membrane electrolysis cells. 

 Machine Learning 

Machine Learning (ML) is a data-driven approach for extracting complex 

relationships from a dataset. Various ML methods have been studied as 

alternatives to statistical modeling methods for forecasting (Makridakis et al., 

2018). We expect more research applying this approach to technology 

forecasting problems as machine learning becomes more prevalent. 

Linear regression is the most common form of regression analysis and a 

straightforward approach for supervised machine learning for modeling the 

relationship between a dependent (or response) variable and one or more 

independent (or predictor) variables. The earliest mathematical work on linear 

regression was attributed to Legendre and Gauss in the early nineteenth 

century, and since then, regression methods have remained an active research 

area and various transformations have been developed (Pierson and Gashler, 

2017). Depending on the number of independent variables involved, linear 

regression can be classified into simple linear regression and multiple linear 

regression. The basic models for simple and multiple linear regression are 

expressed as follows (James et al., 2013). 

Simple linear regression: 



46 

 

 

Multiple linear regression: 

 

In both cases, Yi is the dependent variable, Xi is the independent variable, β0 is 

the intercept term, β1, …, βp represent parameters to be estimated for p 

independent variables, the error term ϵi captures all other determinants of Yi 

other than the Xi, and the subscript i indexes a particular observation. In 

addition to being used to identify relationships between variables, linear 

regression has been frequently carried out for forecasting. For example, Inman 

et al. (2005, 2006) used multiple linear regression to forecast the release year 

of U.S. fighter aircraft. Lamb et al. (2010) applied both simple and multiple 

linear regression to forecast the first commercialization years of long-range 

passenger aircraft. Cho and Anderson (2017) also used multiple linear 

regression to forecast the launch time of main battle tanks. Moreover, Dereli 

and Durmuşoğlu (2009, 2010a, 2010b) performed linear regression modeling 

of patent information to develop a trend-based patent alert system (PAS). 

Polynomial regression is another form of regression analysis. In polynomial 

regression, the relationship between the dependent variable and the 

independent variable is modeled as an nth degree polynomial equation (James 

et al., 2013), which is generally expressed as   

. 

Polynomial regression is a type of regression producing a non-linear curve. 

LSTM (Long Short-Term Memory), introduced by Hochreiter and 



47 

 

Schmidhuber (1997), is a special type of recurrent neural network (RNN) that 

is able to not only model sequential events with standard RNNs but learn much 

longer-term temporal dependencies between events than standard RNNs, 

which suffer the loss of ability to link information as the time steps between 

events increase. It has been used in a large variety of tasks, such as machine 

translation (Sutskever et al., 2014), speech recognition (Graves et al., 2013), 

and technology forecasting (Gui and Xu, 2021). In an LSTM unit, a memory 

cell is introduced, in addition to the existing hidden state of RNNs, to keep 

information of past events in memory for long periods of time. Gating 

mechanisms are also employed to control the memory cell state and regulate 

how much of the previous information to forget and new information to take in 

before passing on the information to the next unit.  

SVMs, or support vector machines, were developed by Vladimir Vapnik and 

his colleagues at AT&T Bell Laboratories in the 1990s. They are a machine 

learning technique that can handle tasks such as classification and regression 

analysis (Osuna et al., 1997). The idea of an SVM model is that an optimal 

separating hyperplane that has the largest gap between two classes in a 

higher-dimensional feature space is created based on training samples, and 

subsequent samples can be assigned to a class in that space depending on 

which side of the gap they map to. It was initially devised to resolve pattern 

classification problems and later extended to another version, which is called 

support vector regression (SVR), for dealing with the regression problems. The 

last two decades have seen a growing interest in the SVM approach among 

researchers and various applications can be found in the literature. More 



48 

 

details about SVMs and their application can be found in Osuna et al. (1997). 

The Conv-RNN and Conv-RNN-sep models were proposed by Xin et al. 

(2019) to forecast trends in patents. The architecture of the models comprises 

a CNN layer as a feature extractor to extract patterns from the data and an 

RNN as an encoder to encode a sequence of input features into an 

intermediate representation. Also, the Conv-RNN model has a DNN as a 

decoder that decodes the representation into the forecasting results whereas 

the Conv-RNN-sep uses multiple separate DNNs. Xin et al. (2019) argued that 

adding the CNN layer helps improve the forecasting performance of the models 

as it captures the patterns in the data. 

The EEMD-LSTM model is composed of two models: EEMD and LSTM. 

EEMD (ensemble EMD) is an improvement to empirical mode decomposition 

(EMD), which was proposed by Huang et al. (1998) to study non-linear and 

non-stationary behavior in a complex signal. EMD/EEMD performs 

decomposition by decomposing a signal into multiple components, known as 

intrinsic mode functions (IMFs), with different amplitudes and frequencies and 

a residue (Gui and Xu, 2021). Wu and Huang (2009) developed the EEMD 

algorithm to resolve the mode mixing phenomenon problem while preserving 

the non-linear and non-stationary features of the original sequence data. The 

problem is defined as a single IMF containing signals of different scales, or 

different IMFs containing a signal of a similar scale, and is caused by 

intermittence or noise signals in the EMD algorithm. 

  GRU (gated recurrent unit), proposed by Cho et al. (2014), is a variant of 

LSTM designed to have fewer gates and parameters than LSTM due to the 



49 

 

high computational cost of LSTM. A GRU has a reset gate and an update gate 

but not the output gates that are present in LSTM to control the output flow of 

memory information into the future hidden state. Additionally, a GRU does not 

have a separate memory cell but uses the gating mechanism to keep and 

control the memory information within the unit. Despite using simplified gating 

mechanisms, GRU still has comparable result quality to LSTM according to 

empirical evaluation (Chung et al., 2014). Therefore, GRU can be used when 

less memory is available and faster computation desired. 

LSTNet, or long- and short time-series network, is a deep learning model 

introduced by Lai et al. (2018) for multivariate time series forecasting. It was 

designed to model the mixture of both long-term and short-term repeating 

patterns in time series data. In LSTNet, a convolutional neural network (CNN) 

is utilized to capture short-term dependency patterns among variables, which 

are fed simultaneously into a recurrent neural network, a temporal attention 

layer, and an autoregressive component to discover long-term patterns in data. 

 Time Series 

A time series is typically a succession of data points observed at equally 

spaced periods of time. Time series forecasting refers to the process of 

forecasting future values of a variable with a mathematical model based on 

previously observations. Time series forecasting models have been used 

extensively in both scientific and business fields (Smith and Agrawal, 2015), 

although they are not frequently employed in forecasting technological 

advancement (Zhang et al., 2019a). They range from simple exponential 



50 

 

smoothing methods to more complex ones, such as the method of 

autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA). 

The exponential smoothing methods originated in the 1950’s and 1960’s 

from the work of Brown (1959), Holt (1957, reprinted 2004), and Winters (1960) 

when they were developing forecasting models for inventory control (Fomby, 

2008). The methods have been used in various fields especially in forecasting 

economic and financial data. Exponential smoothing works by smoothing a 

time series by allocating unequal weights to the previous observations and 

using the smoothed series to forecast near-future values of the series. Older 

observations are given less weight than recent observations and the weights 

decrease exponentially towards zero as the distance from the present 

increases. In other words, exponential smoothing relies more on recent 

observations than on older observations to forecast. The idea is that recent 

observations are often the best forecasters of the future. 

The most basic exponential smoothing method is simple exponential 

smoothing, which requires little computation and is suitable for forecasting a 

data series that moves randomly around the mean (or level) of the series 

without a clear trend or seasonality. Simple exponential smoothing is given by 

the equation (Nau, 2014) 

. 

Here, Xt is the actual value or observation at current time step t, St is the current 

smoothed value or level estimate and the forecast for the next time step t+1, 

St-1 is the previous level estimate, and α is the smoothing parameter to be 



51 

 

determined. The equation is recursive since every level estimate is calculated 

using every estimate before it. The computation eventually leads to a weighted 

average of past observations across all time steps with the weights determined 

by the value of α, which is set between 0 and 1. If α is set to near one, the 

smoothed value or next forecast St will more closely resemble the current 

observation. If it is near zero, St will appear very similar to the old forecast. 

Simple exponential smoothing can produce good results for a time series 

with a nearly horizontal level, but it will result in bad forecasts in case of 

existence of a trend. To overcome this deficiency, Holt’s exponential smoothing 

(Holt, 1957, reprinted 2004), also known as double exponential smoothing, 

incorporates a trend term to allow the forecasting of data with a trend. In the 

Holt’s method, two smoothing equations are used to respectively estimate the 

level and trend of the series at the end of each period. In the level equation, 

the estimated level of the series at time t is a weighted average of the actual 

value of the series at time t and the one-step-ahead forecast for time t. In the 

trend equation, the estimated trend of the series at time t is a weighted average 

of the difference of the estimated level of the series at time t and the estimated 

level of the series at time t-1 and the estimated trend of the series at time t-1. 

Both the estimates of the level and trend of the series are then used to generate 

the h-step-ahead forecast, which equals the estimated level plus the estimated 

trend value multiplied by h, where h represents the number of time steps into 

the future. 

Holt-Winters exponential smoothing, also called Winters' exponential 

smoothing or triple exponential smoothing, improves Holt’s exponential 



52 

 

smoothing by capturing seasonality on top of the trend to cope with data series 

with both trend and seasonal patterns, which reflect a tendency to exhibit a 

pattern that repeats itself at fixed intervals. The Holt-Winters method, therefore, 

consists of three smoothing equations including the level, the trend, and the 

seasonality update equations. In general, depending on the form of 

seasonality, there are two variations of the Holt-Winters method: the 

multiplicative method which assumes that the seasonal fluctuations vary 

proportionately to the data series’ mean level and the additive method which 

assumes that the seasonal fluctuations are stable (Chatfield, 1978). The 

method used must correspond to the particular type of time series. When 

applying either the additive or multiplicative method to a series, initial estimates 

for the level, trend, and seasonal components must be determined. As more 

observations become available, the values for the three components will all be 

updated with the corresponding smoothing parameters. Subsequently, 

forecasts for any number of steps forward can be made. Chatfield (1978) made 

some practical suggestions regarding the implementation of the Holt-Winters 

approach. Goodwin (2010) also provided an easy-to-follow example illustrating 

this method of exponential smoothing. For detailed discussion of both the Holt's 

and Holt-Winters methods, see Kalekar (2004). 

The autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) models (also 

known as Box–Jenkins models) were introduced by Box and Jenkins (1970, 

1976) to integrate the autoregressive (AR) model, in which the past values of 

a time series can determine its current value, and the moving average (MA) 

models, in which past forecast errors help determine its current value, to allow 



53 

 

for modeling non-stationary time series data (De Gooijer and Hyndman, 2006). 

A non-stationary time series, which has a mean that changes over time as 

opposed to remaining roughly constant, can be identified with a visual 

inspection of the plot of the series or through the augmented Dickey-Fuller test 

to check whether the series is non-stationary. If a time series is determined to 

be non-stationary, it can be made stationary by repeatedly taking the difference 

of the series until it becomes stationary. However, caution should be taken to 

avoid over-differencing, which would produce a loss in forecasting 

performance (Hyndman and Khandakar, 2008). Differencing is a discrete 

operation similar to differentiation, and it tends to magnify fluctuations due to 

noise. Multiple differencing stages tend to lead to noise that overwhelms the 

underlying signal of interest. 

The ARIMA models are typically notated as ARIMA(p,d,q), in which p is the 

order of the autoregressive (AR) process, d represents the order of differencing 

required for making the original non-stationary time series stationary, and q is 

the order of the moving average (MA) process (Demos and Salas, 2017). 

Selecting appropriate values for p, d, and q is not an easy task but can be 

automatically done by software implementing automatic ARIMA (Auto-ARIMA) 

forecasting (Hyndman and Khandakar, 2008). The best possible ARIMA model 

can also be obtained with the aid of software using likelihood-based model fit 

measures, for example, the Akaike’s Information Criterion (AIC) and the 

Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC) (De Gooijer and Hyndman, 2006; Howell 

et al., 2021). A detailed discussion of ARIMA models can be found in Demos 

and Salas (2017). Smith and Agrawal (2015) studied patent data and found the 



54 

 

results satisfactory using ARIMA(1,1,3), ARIMA(2,1,0), and ARIMA(2,1,1) to 

forecast the patent counts of three patent groups respectively. 

The geometric random walk with drift model was proposed by Farmer and 

Lafond (2016) based on Moore's law for making distributional forecasts for a 

technology that clearly account for forecast uncertainty rather than being 

limited to point forecasts. Applying it to solar photovoltaic modules, Farmer and 

Lafond (2016) showed that the model can be used to forecast technological 

cost improvement, although it is not suitable for unevenly spaced time series 

data (Zhang et al., 2019a). 

The GM(1,1) model, expressing a first order differential equation with one 

input variable, is a grey forecasting model based on the grey system theory 

that was proposed in 1980s by Deng (Yuan et al., 2011). Since then, it has 

been broadly applied to various systems in domains such as economics, 

engineering, finance, geology, medicine, social systems, transportation, etc. 

(Kayacan et al., 2010) and recently expanded to address forecasting 

technological progress (Martino, 2010). The "grey" in the grey system theory 

implies that the theory deals with the systems characterized by both 'black' or 

unknown information, 'white' or known information, and ‘grey’ or partially known 

information, exemplified by grey numbers of which an interval is a typical 

example. In other words, grey forecasting models require only a limited amount 

of data to estimate the behavior of the unknown system and are thus suitable 

for forecasting the performance of a new technology with limited historical data. 

Empirical evidence has shown that grey modeling performs better in short-term 

forecasting than in medium- and long-term forecasting (Hsu, 2003). However, 



55 

 

it is typically true that short-term forecasting in general works better than 

medium- and long-term forecasting. Yuan et al. (2011) used the GM(1,1) model 

to predict the power efficiency of OLEDs and found it more accurate than two 

S-shaped curves, namely the Gompertz curve and the Bass model. Lin et al. 

(2004) provided an explanation of the grey models. 

 Other 

This class includes four methods: Lotka–Volterra equations, the Gupta model, 

the step and wait (SAW) model, and the tobit II model. 

The Lotka–Volterra equations were originally devised in the early 1900s to 

explain changes in fish and shark populations observed in the Adriatic Sea and 

have been frequently used to analyze predator-prey competition systems 

(Zhang et al., 2018). The method's use in modeling the dynamics of interacting 

populations in an ecosystem has also been extended to model other 

relationships (Zhang et al., 2019b), such as multi-technology interactions. In 

1997, the original Lotka–Volterra equations were amended by Pistorius and 

Utterback (1997) to study the interaction between two technologies (Zhang et 

al., 2019b). Their method consists of a pair of differential equations where the 

left-hand side contains the derivatives of the performance measures of two 

technologies, which represent the two technologies' performance change rates 

over time, respectively, and the right-hand side contains the variables that 

represent the performance measures of the two technologies and the 

interaction terms that represent the interaction effects between the two 

technologies (Zhang et al., 2018). The equations can be easily augmented to 



56 

 

include more technologies to model technology evolution and interaction 

(Dohnal and Doubravsky, 2016). 

The Gupta model is widely used in the marketing literature to analyze sales 

promotion effects and predict consumers' interpurchase behavior. Its 

discontinuous nature also makes it suitable for modeling the irregular course 

of technological change. The model can be decomposed into three stages: 

brand choice, interpurchase time, and purchase quantity. Sood et al. (2012) fit 

the purchase quantity model and interpurchase time model to predict the 

performance improvement of a technology and the time between changes in 

performance, respectively. 

The step and wait (SAW) model was introduced by Sood et al. (2012) to 

model the technologies displaying an irregular growth pattern that contains 

periods of constant performance (flat waiting periods between steps) and 

discontinuous steps. In this method, the change in technological performance 

is modeled by the step sub-model and the time between changes is modeled 

by the wait sub-model. The authors argued that this discontinuous model is 

better at capturing technological improvement processes than some traditional 

continuous approaches such as exponential curves and S-shaped curves. 

The tobit II model, or the tobit type II, is one of the tobit model variations 

that Goldberger (1964) named in reference to Tobin (1958), who developed 

the first tobit model to address issues with limited dependent variables (Tellis, 

1988), which are dependent variables that have limited ranges with many 

observations at the lower or upper limit (Econometrics Academy, 2022). With 

tobit II, technology evolution can be modeled with a set of step functions (Sood 



57 

 

et al., 2012). 

3. Discussion and conclusions 

As technology forecasting has continued to attract attention, technology 

forecasting techniques have been rapidly developed. We sought to review the 

existing literature on technology forecasting addressing the application of 

quantitative trend extrapolation approaches to various technologies. Growth 

curves and time series methods were shown to continue to play a significant role 

in technology forecasting, while some new methods, such as machine learning 

approaches, including machine learning-based hybrid models, have also emerged 

in recent years. Several studies in our review have shown hybrid models producing 

more accurate forecasts than individual models. In this regard, hybrid models 

seem to have great potential for improving forecasting accuracy and show a 

promising venue for future research. Despite the excitement surrounding these 

new developments, more evidence is needed before machine learning and hybrid 

models can be concluded to be better than growth curves and traditional time 

series methods. Therefore, we expect the growing trend of developing and 

applying hybrid models to technology forecasting to continue. 

Our study has limitations that provide opportunities for future literature reviews. 

First, our search was restricted to the publications retrieved from the Google 

Scholar and Web of Science databases. There are, however, many other well-

known databases, such as Scopus, SpringerLink, and IEEE Xplore, that were not 

employed in this survey but might contain additional relevant studies. In future 

reviews, these databases could be included to reduce the chances of overlooking 



58 

 

a relevant study. Second, by limiting our review to the articles published during 

1990-2022, older articles were not included. Future review activities could expand 

the time span to also cover such studies, illuminating the longer term history of the 

field. Nevertheless, the results of this study provide technology forecasting 

researchers and practitioners with current knowledge of the area and a 

perspective on commonly used quantitative technology forecasting techniques. 



59 

 
