Timestamp: 2026-01-09T14:49:14.576810
Title: 布兰登比格斯 - 1月6日 风暴 BV1VbqTBTEpy
URL: https://b23.tv/pGlJO1Z
Status: success
Duration: 2:21:48

Description:
好的，这是对所提供文本核心思想的提炼、总结和可视化。

### **内容概要与结构**

#### **一、核心主题：为美国和特朗普总统在“决断之谷”中祈祷**
*   **背景：** 讲者认为美国正处在一个历史性的“临界点”，特朗普总统正面临一个自二战以来最重大的决定，其重要性堪比罗斯福总统决定参与二战。
*   **呼吁：** 本次分享的核心目的是号召信徒为国家和特朗普总统迫切祷告，因为他正行走在悬崖峭壁之间的“决断之谷”中。

#### **二、预言中的多重危机与“风暴”**
*   **地缘政治威胁（外部敌人）：**
    *   **古巴：** 是一个比委内瑞拉更危险的“热点”，与俄罗斯秘密结盟，藏匿生物武器和地下军事基地，计划攻击美国。
    *   **国际阴谋：** 朝鲜、俄罗斯和中国的领导人正在密谋，计划通过多线作战（攻击台湾、以色列、乌克兰）来削弱美国，使其“分身乏术”。
    *   **内部渗透（内部敌人）：** 存在“红潮”（Red Dawn）式的危机，大量敌对国家的特工（中东和中国）已通过边境渗透进入美国。政府高层，如白宫、五角大楼等，存在“内鬼”。
*   **未来的灾难与社会动荡：**
    *   **重大瘟疫：** 2027年末至2028年，将爆发一场比新冠更严重的、由AI技术制造并通过老鼠传播的瘟疫。
    *   **自然灾害：** 俄勒冈州沿海的火山将大规模喷发，引发海啸，波及西海岸；加拿大不列颠哥伦比亚省将发生大地震。
    *   **社会与政治攻击：** 将出现针对第二修正案（持枪权）的攻击、对食品供应的破坏（如牛瘟）以及利用媒体进行的心理战。2028年将发生一场利用社交媒体制造的“水门事件”式丑闻。
    *   **金融与司法腐败：** 揭示了乌克兰资金的洗钱网络，并预言最高法院将有两位大法官因丑闻下台。

#### **三、属灵层面的争战与神的计划**
*   **属灵复兴：** 尽管黑暗加剧，但神也将在全球范围内（特别是穆斯林和亚洲地区）软化最刚硬的心，带来前所未有的“灵魂大丰收”。
*   **神的洁净与恢复：** 神正在洁净美国的政治和教会，揭露腐败。神最终的计划是恢复正义、秩序和国家的财富。
*   **属灵音乐的兴起：** 将会有一波全新的、发自内心、荣耀神的敬拜音乐兴起。

#### **四、对信徒的呼召与行动指南**
*   **迫切祷告：** 这是信徒最首要的责任，要为国家领袖、抵御邪恶阴谋而持续祷告。
*   **坚固信仰，行使权柄：** 信徒必须每日研读《圣经》，建立“铁骨般的脊梁”，认识到自己拥有胜过黑暗的属灵权柄，而不是被恐惧吞噬。
*   **悔改归主：** 讲者最后呼召所有未信者接受耶稣基督，认为这是在末后时代获得平安与拯救的唯一途径。

---

### **内容总览框架**

该内容构建在一个 **善恶二元论的属灵争战世界观** 之上。其核心框架是：**神的计划（通过特朗普和信徒实现）** 与 **撒旦的阴谋（通过全球敌对势力和国内叛徒执行）** 之间的直接对抗。整个叙事遵循 **“预言警告（危机） -> 呼吁行动（祷告） -> 神的介入与最终胜利（复兴）”** 的模式，旨在激发信徒的紧迫感和使命感。

---

### **一句话核心结论**

信徒必须通过迫切的祷告和坚定的信仰，支持特朗普总统和美国抵御一场由国内外敌人精心策划的、迫在眉睫的巨大危机，并为即将到来的属灵大复兴做好准备。

---

### **核心概念关系图 (Mermaid)**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    A["讲者的信息: 预言与呼召"] --> B{"美国与特朗普总统处于 '决断之谷'"};
    A --> C{"风暴与威胁 (内外夹击)"};
    A --> D{"神的计划与应许 (最终胜利)"};
    A --> E{"信徒的责任与行动"};

    subgraph "危机与挑战"
        B -- "面临" --> C;
        C --> F["外部敌人"];
        C --> G["内部敌人"];
        C --> H["未来灾难"];
    end

    subgraph "威胁的具体内容"
        F -- "策划" --> F1["国际阴谋 (中、俄、朝)"];
        F -- "威胁" --> F2["古巴 (生物武器)"];
        F1 --> F3["攻击台湾、以色列、乌克兰"];
        G -- "包含" --> G1["政府内鬼 ('老鼠')"];
        G -- "包含" --> G2["边境渗透 ('红潮')"];
        H -- "包括" --> H1["AI瘟疫 (2027-28)"];
        H -- "包括" --> H2["火山海啸"];
        H -- "包括" --> H3["社会攻击 (食品/媒体)"];
    end

    subgraph "神的计划与盼望"
        D --> I["全球灵魂大丰收"];
        D --> J["洁净与恢复正义"];
        D --> K["属灵复兴"];
    end
    
    subgraph "信徒的回应"
        E -- "采取行动" --> L["迫切祷告"];
        E -- "采取行动" --> M["坚固信仰 (读经)"];
        E -- "采取行动" --> N["行使属灵权柄"];
        E -- "最终目的" --> O["悔改归向耶稣"];
    end

    L -- "支持" --> B;
    M -- "对抗" --> C;
    N -- "对抗" --> C;
    B -- "通向" --> D;

    style A fill:#F9F7D8,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style B fill:#FFD700,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style C fill:#FF6347,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style D fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style E fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    
    style F fill:#FFB6C1,stroke:#333
    style G fill:#FFB6C1,stroke:#333
    style H fill:#FFB6C1,stroke:#333
    style F1 fill:#FFC0CB,stroke:#333
    style F2 fill:#FFC0CB,stroke:#333
    style F3 fill:#FFC0CB,stroke:#333
    style G1 fill:#FFC0CB,stroke:#333
    style G2 fill:#FFC0CB,stroke:#333
    style H1 fill:#FFC0CB,stroke:#333
    style H2 fill:#FFC0CB,stroke:#333
    style H3 fill:#FFC0CB,stroke:#333

    style I fill:#98FB98,stroke:#333
    style J fill:#98FB98,stroke:#333
    style K fill:#98FB98,stroke:#333

    style L fill:#B0E0E6,stroke:#333
    style M fill:#B0E0E6,stroke:#333
    style N fill:#B0E0E6,stroke:#333
    style O fill:#B0E0E6,stroke:#333
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
Good evening family. Thank you for joining me today. I appreciate it. We've got a lot to pray about tonight. You know I don't even know where to join to jump into this river right now. I'm trying that's what I'm doing. I'm just worshiping just listen. Some of the things that order showed me today is the storm and praying over our nation and and I was here. Brandon Biggs loves America. Brandon Biggs, my family, we love America. We love President Trump. We love we love our nation and we pray for it every single day. But there's a storm coming and I never want to come across this. I'm cynical towards America that I'm up here damning America and and saying all the things that that you would say well Brandon you're against America. You're against. No no no no no. I love America. I love my country. I pray for it every single day. We pray for it a lot. I told what you're talking about it today. I said we pray for President Trump more than we pray for anybody else. But when you see storms you see things coming you have to be I'm a I'm a watchman and I tell you what I say. So I never want to come across as I'm being cynical. You know that I'm against America. We love America. Okay. So I just want you to know that when I when I say what I say. We love President Trump. But I'm going to tell you we need to pray for him tonight's video is dedicated to pray for this our country and to pray for President Trump and the Valley of the decision of where he's at right now and the storm that is on both sides he's walking through it. He's walking through. There's there's cliffs on both sides and I saw him walking through this valley and he's about to make a major decision. And this decision is is one that is is probably with the most important decision that's made to any president and any president's presidency in decades. Probably since World War II. I'll say that it's it's that big of a decision. The deciding factor I guess it was Roosevelt to join in when when Japan bombed Pearl Harbor that kind of a major decision. We're at a crossroads right now in America and what we're about to see is an escalation of war like you wouldn't believe. We're at we're at a tipping point. And most people don't realize this the severity and the urgency of the hour. And maybe you do because you clicked on this video so quickly. Maybe you feel the urgency in you tonight. But this is a time like we've never seen before. Well in this generation. Our grandparents had our grant our grandfathers fought in the war. They lot they and how many times have I told you I've seen. Like the saving private Ryan scenes over Europe and over areas. And I saw the Hitler symbol being called up and do sacrifice to Virgin sacrifices out of Berlin to witchcraft. And I saw so much demonic occultic activity. Channeling and trying to conjure up the the through serend through portals through satanic practice trying to bring forth the Hitler spirit to bring forth the the Madi which would be the Antichrist. And so I don't focus on darkness. I really never talked about it. But I tell you what I see when I see it. But what like I said we're at the Valley of decision. And and and so I'm going to go over some of the things the Lord has showed me concerning Cuba. And the storm coming out of Cuba. I've I've warned about Cuba more than I warned about Venezuela. Cuba was a hot spot. Cuba's more serious than Venezuela. We went after Venezuela and we took Maduro out. And that's all done right. No, it's not done. There's more to there's more coming. There's storm. The drug cartels. They don't want to let go. They don't they've had a stronghold over that nation. This is big money. This isn't just a couple million dollars. It's billions of dollars of drug trafficking, human trafficking. They've had a stronghold on that nation. There's key leaders. There's key people through Cuba that are very dark and it goes into Claudia. And it's a three-stranded cord that is not easily broken. A three-stranded cord that goes through Mexico, to Claudia and the drug cartels to them into Cuba. It's like a V. So what the Lord has warned us so many times is as I saw the submarines and I saw boats secretly delivering packages and things to Cuba in the night. Now secret to us is secret to the United States of America. You being a hundred miles away from the southernmost point, I'm sure they know. I mean they know they know what you know our blood type is. You know, they know everything about it's basically did pretend they don't. But I've seen a storm coming out of Cuba and the Lord kept bringing up the 1960s, Cuban Missile Crisis, revisiting old alliances with Russia and Cuba and the things that I've seen in the days that had secret things. And I saw underground caverns that were dug in Cuba with it were underground bases like in Cuba that had military stuff in it. Biological weapons that were delivered to them of how they could infiltrate, how they could go after Miami, go after parts of the Keys, the Florida Keys, how do you attack and retaliate. And I saw the dragon come up three times out of the water that was lavender. If anybody remembers the dragon, it had purple under its eyes, it had purple and it was symbolic to something the Lord was trying to tell us about. But the dragon represented it came up out of the water once, twice, three times. And it was dipping three times it was symbolic of some would pray and over. But the Lord showed me a biological the Lord said the mules watch for the mules. And I saw people moving at night in the cover of night that had a black drum that had a symbol on the side, then a biological thing that looked like one of those bank teller tubes, which represented something else. And I saw a bank is like a bank told it was a surf sendler a sendler shit send. Send I don't know. Dear, send sendler send cylinder cylinder. Yep. A cylinder tube that was glass that had a symbol on the side of it. And the Lord showed me that coming out of Cuba. But it hit Miami side. It was coming on Miami side not on Tampa Miami. And this is the symbol I saw on the side of it. It was very serious. So we see these things. And I saw liberation coming. But remember, I saw a green blade coming up out of Cuba. Not adding to taking away from anything. But I saw a brand a new future coming for him. I saw liberation coming for Cuba. I saw green coming up out of Cuba. That was a spring of growth. And there was a there was a cords that were attached underwater that looked like internet cords that were going to Europe. Russia area. And it was attached to it was a new spring of growth of finances and liberty and freedom for Cubans. I saw revival coming to Brazil to Venezuela to Cuba to Mexico to all the South America. It was a major revival. But what's the next thing? He just kept talking. He says it over and all the time. Watch Cuba. They're in your backyard. Watch Cuba. Watch Cuba. And that's what he's been that's been on my heart today. Well, in this valley of the decision, it's concerning Cuba. And this valley of the decision, it's from the persecution. I remember I warned you what the Holy Spirit told us. He said that we would have a lot of in 2026 would be a year of a lot of political theater. And it would escalate clear up until the summer. And you would hear in the days ahead in Peach and Peach and Peach. They'll say it a lot. They'll try to remove this. But but here the Lord warned us about the rat. And I don't ever call individual rat, but there's rats in the White House. There's rats in the Pentagon. There's rats in Homeland Security. There's rats. And I prayed that President Trump finds every rat and they expose them. I saw strategic people that were rats in our our military rats in this to have infiltrated through the Biden administration and other administrations before Obama. And are still here. So we weren't I pray over these things. Pray over these things. Remember the CIA had a yellow yellow hypnotic will. And in the days ahead, they're going to run that hypnotic will and it's yellow and black was represent something serious. And it goes and broadcasts across America. Now, I don't know. I'm not into conspiracies. I don't get into all the weirdness. I just tell you what what the what I see in visions and what the Lord warns me about to pray for our country. And we must pray for President Trump's safety. When I was in the spirit last night, I saw again attacks upon his family. I saw an eye for an eye concerning my Assama Sumillani. And the Lord said, do not forget to pray for Don Jr. again. For I saw him like it was in whenever in back to the future whenever. What's the actors name? Not Tom Cruz. Back to the future back to the future back to the future. He has he has Parkinson's. Did you know his name? Michael J Fox, Michael J Fox was standing on the stage. And he had the pictures of his brothers and sisters and they were fading out. Remember, because he had to get his mom and dad to get together in the movie. The that's the way that's the way Don Jr. Look tonight. He started to fade. He looked like a ghost. You could see through him. And Lord said, bring him back in the front. And as we pray for him, I saw him become bold in color in his skin filled out again. He was fading away like a ghost. And Lord said, pray for him. And I saw his feet and his legs become solid again. Now I know that symbolic and I'm not here to cause drama and cause fear. But I'm telling you what what the Lord has told me to pray for Don Jr. for his life is in danger. Pray for his daughter Kai. I don't know why they would choose to pick a young woman. I don't understand why I see her face before me. But the Lord said, pray for Don Jr. and pray for Kai. So I would encourage all 5,200 of you to take this very serious and pray for this man. For they said an eye for an eye. I hear it. I go into their meetings. The Lord allows me to do this stuff. I don't know how it's just by the spirit of God. But I pray for this man's life. I saw great grievance again coming upon our president for losing his son. And he was broken. He was broken. He's just as human as what all of us are. He's a tough old bird that has a backbone like a crowbar and does hard decisions when nobody else has the rocks to do it. So I pray, I pray for him. I pray for his family because the Lord said, you'll be so thankful that you have him in the days ahead. There's a storm coming to our nation, ladies and gentlemen, because of the Biden administration and what they led in our nation over the last four years before President Trump's term. And in the days ahead, the Democrats will look really stupid even more so than what they already do and the liberalness of what they are trying to destroy our nation is because they wanted to bring it down. They have to bring it down. It's in the way. But thank God for President Trump. And thank God for our people who fight for our nation, our men and women of service and our law enforcement of Homeland Security, FBI, CIA, the ones that are good for what I see. And I'll, I strictly say that the ones that are good. And I pray for every single one of us that we are protected in the days ahead. I saw again, last night, Kim Jong-un talking on the phone in a private meeting with Putin, with Ping. And it was a call from conversation, even with all at only coming. They were all talking. And they were furious about Venezuela. They were furious about how this would all take in place. And they were devising a plan of how to infiltrate each piece of land that they wanted. Kim Jong-un was offered a lot. I could hear them talking. It was on a landline. It wasn't a cell phone. It was a secret landline. So nobody could tap it. In this, he was wearing black silk clothes. He had gold embroidery around it. He had women all around him. I saw women feeding him. I saw women in Britain drinks. I saw servants of women that look like prostitutes all around Kim Jong-un. They were young girls probably in their 20s. But there was lots of them. I would say probably 10 to 20 because they were coming in and out of a room. And they were bringing things and they were fanning him. They were doing things. And he was sitting back in like a, it looked like a lounge couch thing. And he had his hand up and he had his hand on it. He was talking on the phone. And he was communicating. He act like he was some kind of pimp or something. I don't know how to describe it. And he was talking. And I saw them devising a plan against our great country. They were upset because of Venezuela. But I saw them. I saw Ping trying to get the votes across in his own country. They, he needed more votes. There was people that were standing against invading Taiwan. But he had, was it three? Yeah. Three votes of three men that looked like generals. They were in army fatigue and a lot of badges on their, their chest. And they were, they were, they were in favor of taking Taiwan. But he had a group of people that were not in favor because they didn't want retaliation from the United States for their economy. And what they thought would be repar, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, retaliation for their actions. They were scared because Donald Trump is strong. If it was anybody else, ladies and gentlemen, it would already have been done. They would already want, they would, I'm telling you they're, they're, they are afraid of strong leadership. And that's what I saw that they were weighing out the balance. If it was worth the risk to take Taiwan. I saw in the vision they took Taiwan in two days, three days to totally take it. They surrendered. It didn't take much just like Venezuela. They went in, they took out the leadership. I saw them go in with their, their special ops that came in on helicopters. I watched it all in the vision. I saw how they did it. They landed and they took everybody out. No, they didn't escape with no injuries. There was casualties. I saw people laying all over the ground. They were fighting back. But it didn't take much because they did basically the same strategic plan that we did on Venezuela. And it didn't, it was like that. They're too powerful. I saw that happening. And as I saw this happening, I saw a plan against Israel. To strike Israel. This was more strategic. It happened at night. Turkey, Syria were all involved. The Brotherhood. I saw biological weapons used during this attack that were in 50 gallon drums that looked like yellow liquid. I saw it again. But not this time. It just wasn't on that side, which would be the east, right? No. Yeah. East, Syria is east. It was, it was Egypt. And I saw it coming out of Egypt also. It was surrounded on all sides. Then I saw again, adjacent, boring, kind of an attack against the Koch snorter. Zilinski. I saw him being taken out and I saw a proxy government being put in. There was pro Ukraine, pro Russia. I saw an escalation. I heard them say we can stretch him too thin that he can't retaliate against all of it at once. We can stretch him too thin that we can do it. If we all be strategic, we can stretch him too thin that he can't protect everybody at once he'll have to choose who he wants to help. It'd be too much because he's already has his hand in Venezuela. And it was about Cuba. Do you understand? So we can stretch him too thin. I heard him say, and I saw like a rubber band that looked like it was ready to break. It was stretched in the vision. It was stretched and I saw an ex, a plan to try to escalate or but this is the thing. They infiltrated us within. Yep. Stretch too thin for the enemy within is what I heard. A red dawn experience. And there was an enemy within but the Lord said, I want to show you something. And as I looked across, there were Chinese troops in our country and people were just focused on the the Muslim Arab people. The Middle Easterns, but there was infiltration also of Chinese secret spies in our country that had been led in through the border. And it wasn't just one country who have infiltrated us, but we have more than one. And there was Chinese secret ops in our country. It wasn't as much as the Arabs, but they were still here. And so I see these things and the Lord allows me to warn you to pray for our nation, to pray for our president because he has a lot of hard decisions to make in the days ahead. We still have to pray over the the elections coming up in 2026, but the country will look a lot different by then. This is 250 years of beautiful our beautiful country 250 years. And so I believe that we'll have revival. I believe we're going to see a lot of things. But when I told you, there it is, it's like a quarter. It's that thin. It's rice paper thin. The dark's going to get darker on this side and the light's going to get lighter on this side. And 2026 will mark a year like you've never seen before. And from 2026, 2027 and 2028 will be an acceleration of things. Lord brought me back. Thank you. There he is. You said, he said, tell him again about the rat. I saw Elon Musk coming back on the scene being a friend. Remember, and I said he will, he will use social media and there will be the potential for a Watergate scandal in 2028. A Watergate scandal will try to break forth in 2028 that will try to derail the presidency of 2028. It will be because of social media and things will be asked. We can pray this away and maybe we just exposed it right now so it won't happen. But I saw the opportunity for a Watergate scenario using social media. And because of great pressure from the EU, from Europe, is that you? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All of them coming against Elon Musk X, there'll be major lawsuits that will come against Elon Musk in the days ahead for for mega money to sue him for the first amendment rights and for shutting down the freedom of speech in their nations using his platform. And they will try to attack him. And I saw great censorship coming through 2026 all the way through 2028 for fact checkers and all kinds of things of their, they're going to try to make it where you can't say they all this is false information. This is that you know, they always do what they did with COVID air thumbnails. That you know, Facebook is trash. It's my opinion. I can't stand that platform. Now, some people might like it. I don't and I'm entitled to say that. I don't like it. I don't like Facebook. I don't like other. I don't like TikTok. I don't like Instagram, but I use them because it's a witnessing tool for the Lord. I personally don't like them. I like I don't mind extra truth. Social, you know, I know I believe Elon Musk can become radically born again. I've seen it. You see, well, Brandon, how I believe anybody can get whenever I saw the pricks on the hearts last night and Diana found the verse and I saw the hardest of hearts of people and I saw a man with a beard and I saw him after he had tattoos. All of his body, he was so angry and his mother had been praying for him last night and I saw this man that seemed like he was he was a hell bound. Nobody's going to say this guy. He is hell bound. I saw a prick on his heart and what was the black heart of stone? It was just like Onyx black. Got a little bit of life in it and the life started to spread and it got life. You know how you are a purple when you if you drowned or something and all of a sudden they bring you back and you all of a sudden that rigamortis that's setting in and all that and you get that blood flow and you start that purple starts to fade away. That's the way his heart looked and the Lord said the hardest of hearts in the days ahead. I'll prick them with just love. It just takes one prick and he used the scripture. What was the scripture son? Do you have it in momma's book? Yes, you did. I saw it. It was Psalms something. If you don't see it, that's fine. But he used the scripture for for it for in Diana found it. But it was a trick. Oh, Acts two. Thanks. Acts two 37. Thank you, son. Good job, Braden. Acts two 37. And he's coming after the hearts of that are hardened toward him. He's leaving the 99 to go after the one and when we were praying into it, we even prayed for a a young man that was named was Tyrone. We call forth Tyrone to come home. I saw an African woman, American woman, there was an old woman praying for Tyrone. And she was an elderly woman and she was in her rocking chair and she was interceding and we've been before the Lord for Tyrone. God's heard all y'all's prayers. He loves the souls just as much as what you love your loved ones. He loves his kids and he wished that none of us should perish but all come repentance. Every single one of us, he loves even the darkest of the darkest sinner and he doesn't want any of y'all to go to hell. Not one of them. And that's why I was trying to say so much last night, people try to misconstrue what I was saying. It's not going to validate the Bible, but it will shake the Muslims in the days ahead for the artifacts that will be found out of the earth. The word of God validates itself. It doesn't need any help. But there's some people that will not believe unless they see a sign. They're just that hard. And the Lord said, I'm going to provide a sign for the unbelievers, Brandon. That's what he's saying. And he's going after the Muslims that are just, they're so strong in their faith of what they believe of being a Muslim because they're blinded. They're blinded by the unbelief. They're blinded by false religion. They're not blinded like some Buddhists. They don't see it. And I saw going across Asia, the hardness of the hardest hearts in Asia that were so bound by Buddha, being a Buddhist and Muslim or whatever that the Lord said, I'm going after the Asians. I'm going and I saw a wave of glory, a wave of the prick of his presence upon the hardest of arts, bringing them in. And I saw the greatest harvest of souls this world has ever seen before. Will it be everybody? No. Sadly, sadly, but he's leaving the 99 to go after the ones that we're praying for. So I want to pray for the people tonight. I'm praying for a greatest harvest of souls in America and Europe and in Asia and in Australia and South America and Africa. Why not believe for, you know, I hear one preach a billion so harvest and all this stuff. Then I hear one guy who I say, we have 30 years left and all this stuff. Listen, be careful who you're listening to. We don't know 30 years. Jesus is coming and he was to keep talking about having an urgency. What's an urgency of 30 years? Urgency is he standing at the door and he tells me over, Brandon, I'm standing at the door to the ones that are truly hearing him and that are not cold or trying to perform. If God's not speaking, just shut up. There's no reason to perform. We're not here to entertain you. I don't have to stay relevant. If the platform dies tomorrow, I'll go back to doing full-time eBay and Poshmark. I enjoyed it before. I do this because he asked me to. Tonight, I wasn't going to do a broadcast. He said, Brandon, I need you to help me. I was in and I was cleaning the floors. And he said, because I told Brandon, I said, we're not doing a prayer tonight. I'm going to take a break and I'm just, he said, no. He said, I need you to help me. You must pray for your president. So I say all this in 30 minutes. I've tried really hard. I guess it's 30 minutes. I gave you a little something of where we are. We sure love you. All 7,400 of you. Thank you for being here tonight. Thank you. 7,700. Thank you for being here tonight. We appreciate every single one of you. Almost 8,000 people here to pray. So let's pray. We'll take communion before I always do. I never, people go, why do you do that? Because I don't go in before he's thrown without taking communion first. And I especially don't try to, I look in over and yield to myself. Yeah, I don't want to be snared by any familiar spirits. I'm just as human as what you are. And you got to cover all your roads. And you got to cover all your bases because the enemy comes in like an angel of light. He'll snare you as fast and you can think about it. It's obviously snare a lot of prophetic voices. So you need to always take communion and go before his throne boldly and listen to him by taking communion and prayer and worship first. Don't just jump in a river. Thank you. You can hear. The Lord said, the gift is only pure under whenever the glory is on you. I was down and I went and I had this dream. I'll say this real quick. I had in the Lord, I was at a conference and I was getting ready to speak. And the guest speaker walked it for me and the glory of the Lord came on him. And then and she said, what do you see? And I felt the glory. And she said, only speak when the glory and reveal what the Lord showed you until the anointing is on you to do so. And every time I went to say something, I couldn't get the words out of my mouth because the glory wasn't there. And what the power got down. And I could see. It was a whole thing of correction. But ever since then, I always wait. And even whenever it comes to anything of my own personal stuff. Even when I'm talking and just listen to Lord for a day and a night, I wait until the cloak comes on. Do not talk for the Father unless you feel the presence of the Lord like I do right now. Wait, wait on him. There's no hurry. And if it and if it don't show up, you shut up. You're not here to tickle people's ears and you're not here to perform. Just go on about your business son. I can do nothing apart from him. I have this treasure in earth and vessel that the Excellency, the power of known of him and not of me. Regardless of 7,700 people, whatever. You know, thank you for being here though. You know, I want to get that across. Father, we just lift up this body. We thank you, Father, for what you're going about to show us obviously, because you said I have things for you to do. And I'm so grateful that you had asked me and I humble myself before you. What is it that you have need of Father that I could be, that you would look at me? Thank you. Thank you, Father. Father, we take this body in the name of Jesus. And we thank you, Lord, that you died forever single one of us. And you died forever single one of us that we don't have to go to hell. You died, that we buy your straps were healed. You took it all on the cross for us. You took sickness and disease. You took mental torments of people, depression, sad, seasonal depression disorder. You took anxiety. You took pressure. You had so much pressure on you that you sweat blood, Lord. I'm so grateful for what you did for us. And I'm so thankful for all that you've done for us. And we take this body in the name of Jesus. And we believe we receive what you did for us by faith that we're wall, wall, holy, ghost. You dwell on the inside of us by faith. And we receive it in Jesus name. I believe it. And I receive it. I'm a believing believer. Amen. More we take the blood. And we make much of the blood. And we apply the blood of Jesus over our great nation. And we thank you, Father, for our president. We thank you, Father, for his children. And their children. We plead the blood over his wife and over Baron, over Tiffany, over Ivanka, over Eric, and over Don. We cover every single one of the kids and Kai and the grandkids in the blood. We thank you, Lord, that no weapon formed against them will prosper. A thousand should fall at their side and 10,000 at their right hand, but nothing shall come neither of us. We pray over JD Vance and over his wife. We pray over their kids. We thank you, Lord, that the angel, the Lord, to kept around and about them. And we thank you, Lord, for our law enforcement. We thank you, Lord, for our Sheriff's Department and our local police department, our FBI, our, our, our, uh, highway patrol. Father, we cover every single one of them in the blood. Father, home insecurity, the NSA. Our TSA. I thank you, Father. We make much of the blood and the blood makes much of us. Yeah, I see that too. I was instantly, I was instantly, I, I, I'm okay. I'm not too slowly, too slowly. I'm not too slowly, too slowly, I'm not too slowly, too slowly. I'm not too slowly, too slowly, I'm not too slowly, too slowly. I'm not too slowly, too slowly, too slowly, I'm not too slowly, too slowly, too slowly. We pray over Lakewood Church. It comes before me again. I pray over Lakewood Church. And all that, that, that area all around there. I pray over Houston. I pray over Joel and Victoria. I believe it's her name. I plead the blood of Jesus over them. And I thank you, Lord, that no weapon formed against them would prosper and every tongue that rise against them, Father, we condemn it. Now, Father, I thank you, Lord, that there's a shaking to awaken and the great glory of God would rest on them and, and, and, and bring them back to the, to, to a stronger foundation and a stronger root in Jesus name. We plead the blood over them and we thank you, Lord. There's a covering over that church. Lord, I take this blood right now in Jesus name and I thank you, Lord. I, I see, I even see John Eggie right now. Why them churches, Lord? I take this blood right now in Jesus name. I take this blood right now in Jesus name. Cornerstone. San Antonio, Texas. It's, it's the bloodline around that church because he's standing with Israel. It's an attack because of what he does with Israel. You understand? This is what I'm seeing right now. It's because of his stance toward Israel. He's very vocal about this and there's locals. There's local groups. I see local groups. I see one particular person that is an ISIS supporter. He's, he has, he has, he has, it's there in San Antonio. You understand? And I'm seeing it very clear. It's one individual for sure and I see he tried, he's like a, he's a sympathizer. He looks like he's African American mixed. He's lighter skin, not full African American like white, white, like mixed. I don't know how to say that. You know, everybody knows what I'm talking about though. He's about 250, 240, 250, 240 pounds. I see this man. He's, he's a sympathizer. No, no, no, no. We call him down and we call him exposed and we call him out and you'll not touch the haggies. You'll not touch cornerstone church. We bind you in the name of Jesus Christ. We come against you. You cease and desist in your maneuvering. And we plead the blood of Jesus over cornerstone church and overall around that, that congregation, that no weapon formed against them will prosper. We bind this demonic assignment. We command you to cease and desist in your maneuvering and we say cease now in Jesus name. We call him covering and uncovering and uncovering and uncovering of every part, every plan of every pursuit on this congregation. And we say you will not do this in Jesus name. And we thank you Lord that we'll see the news and he'll get born again and radically saved. In Jesus name. Nanda, Anadisika. Yeah, it's, it's him and two others. But these two back here are not so stupid. Not to get silly by. These two back here are just try, it's like a either they're like click, they're click too. There's a girl, there's a girl there, him and some one other. No stay, no stay. They'll be okay. Okay. Haren, Haren, Onemosche tes toya. Onemosche tes toya para nayo, para nayo, para nayo. Credidikindodo. Now, sister clipboard, don't be calling and bothering these people. We got it. His people, I'm sure watch. So don't be calling and blowing up his phone. Okay. Don't be, don't be trying to harass these people. Don't be flaky. Pray. Use more time, pray and instead of being a busy body. Sothu shahre mikirabakimase. Me llama mochtus tus tus tus tupiradahre mikitake. Me llama mikitake be ki hap oromokus y dara. Madamee no shtai. Yeah. Be more prayerful instead of careful. Being taken to care. No. De kustai. There'll be so much more in the days ahead that the Lord will reveal. You must get a backbone like a crowbar. We're in dark times. Stop being scattered. Like like the sky's falling. The sky's not falling. This way he's called us to watch on the wall and to take our authority over things and be able to use our faith, our God-given authority. Like Sister Billy O. It tells us the authority of the believer. You must read books like this and fill your spirit full of good literature instead of the trash you're watching, the view or whatever. Stop watching that, sister clipboard. Get an word. Shumbara mikaramokus y dara. Be re vishus shtai hap makramam. Madamee kita makta be stale. Daily, daily, he says. Daily. Daily, not just on Sunday. Get an word daily. Mottishalum. Mottishalum. Madamee kanna mottabase. Mikaramantimbar rovo shus. Tardale, talale, la lor, la lor, naloho shtumana. Thank you, Lord. Thank you, Lord. For even your correction, we love you. He's so funny. If you could hear the way he talked right then, he was turned. I think he's, I sure he makes me laugh. It's okay. Well, I just said it. Just the way you said it. And come up before me daily, not just on Sunday. We got bigger angels than they've got demons. They're all defeated. Do you understand? But the reason why, that things get through the cracks is when people don't take their authority over where they live. Pleading the blood, do what we're doing. And when you do that, the enemy's under our feet. Satan doesn't have power over you. You have power over him. Jesus took it all. Do you understand? As he is, so are we in this world. As he is, so are you in this world. And you need to know who you are. We're believing believers. We're not doubters and we're not sitting here when we see all these things and say, well, the sky is falling. We're going to hell in a hand basket. No, I put these on there because it brings in, huh? I don't believe all the drama that's going to happen. We're going to stand on the wall and say, no, you're not taking our land. We're going to, we're going to stop this, some of this stuff. Some of us are going to happen, folks. The Lord said so, but not around my house. There's no crack around here. Do you understand? You got to take authority. The Lord said, Brandon, we will, you will see some things and it will shake the nation. But it doesn't have to touch you. A thousand shall fall at your side and 10,000 at your right hand, but nothing shall come near you. Do you either believe it or you don't? But there are still 10,000 and a thousand that did, but it wasn't you. Only with that eyeshadow beholden see the reward of the wicked. He said, get Psalms 91 and Psalms 23 as a foundation inside of your heart for what's coming. You must know the word of God for what's coming. It cannot be that you just visited every once in a while. You must get the word down inside of you, that it is a pillar inside of you. Did you say, I know in whom I have believed? I know. I am fully persuaded that what God has promised, he is able also to perform it. I am fully persuaded. I am fully persuaded even in the deadness of Sarah's womb. He considered not his own body. He considered not it. He didn't even look. Abraham. Abraham could have said, well, you know what? We're old, busted and disgusted. Here we are. Anywhere at the end of it. No, no, no, no, no, but God promised. But God promised. He is able to do that what she promised. I'm going to be a father of many nations. And here come Isaac, first in the ishmill. But, but God, but God. And you must know who you are in these days ahead. Get that backbone like a crowbar. Get a revelation of this beautiful book that he's given us. And stand on this word and speak to the mountain because your mountain needs to hear your voice. Tell your mountain to be thou removed, to be thou cast in the sea. Don't doubt your heart. You'll have whatsoever thing you say. Speak to it. I am healed. I am delivered. I am prosperous. I have the mind of Christ. According to 2 Timothy 1 7, God has not given me a spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. I have a sound mind. I'm not going to be tormented by a devil's torment. I'm not accepting his poo poo package at my door with FedEx. I refuse the package. You're not doing it in my house. You better stand on the word in the days ahead or you're going to be in trouble. You better get this book down inside of your heart or you're in trouble. This is God's word that is speaking to me. He's speaking to me. I am who he says I am. I can have what he says I can have. I can do what he says I can do. Either you believe it or you don't. I just, I'm not just a stupid, stilety people are humbling. Most of the time, I'm not a silly person. I'm not a stupid person. I'm a little bit too stupid. I'm a little bit too stupid. I'm a little bit too stupid. I'm a little bit too stupid. I'm a little bit too stupid. I'm a little bit too stupid. I'm aiva. I'm a little bit too stupid. I'm a little bit too stupid. I'm a little bit too stupid. So many religious Pharisees, you must come up higher with the fire. You're running out of time. Jesus Christ is coming. Jesus Christ is coming. Do you understand, ladies and gentlemen? He's coming. He's standing at the door. We're about to see the greatest move of God we've ever seen before. I saw Brother Hagen standing down the side. I saw Catherine Kuhlman. I saw these people. I keep seeing these visions. They're watching. They're getting ready for the show. They're excited about it. The great cloud of witnesses are watching. Do you realize how blessed you truly are that you were born for such a time as this? I was taking out the trash. This is a little bit ago. And I walked over and I said, Lord, whatever it takes, let's see the greatest move. I want to be a part of it. Use me for something more than just what I'm doing. Never lose your hunger. Never lose your thirsty. You've got to get on track. Lord, say, Brandon, you've got to get on track. It's getting late. So let's pray over. Let's pray over. President Trump, let's pray over these decisions. And I'm just going to pray in the spirit because I have no idea what to even say about it in the natural. You know, I could talk to the flesh and pray in tongues. It gets a lot more. Let's hit the mark. And you that don't pray in tongues. You pray in English, pray in what you know, pray in what you understand. Okay. I pray in the spirit. Act chapter two. If you don't understand what I'm praying and understand about tongues, get the book, Why Tongues by Kenneth E. Hagen. And it will change your life. Why tongues by Kenneth E. Hagen. And that little book takes less than probably 30 minutes to read it. It explained everything about the baptism of the Holy Ghost. It's probably less than a dollar on the Hagen's website. His son, Kenneth Jr. has it on there. It's like this big. You can probably even find it for free on there. Somebody probably pirated it off there. You find it for read it. Read it again. If you want to know about the baptism of the Holy Ghost and why tongues. And you say, well, it's not for everybody. It is for everybody. It's your spirit speaking fourth mysteries. Now I'm on praying tongues and we're praying a perfect prayer before the Lord. And I believe with all my heart, he's going to show us what we need to do to be doing right now. Father, I thank you Lord. I just yield over to you.buye Yeah, My most sticky supply market a big instakbaby my turned on strictly my indictment get her the book and Let it right down when whenever cuz I wanted to write this stuff down Fujish stories fuzzy Pie commercial They basically babyackling people and ??? They devices shown lately the issue I'm in New York. I'm by Times Square. I'm going down that street in Times Square. So you know where I'm at. Meegiodi mp1ly buRob tummoopiaudpommedg? We go down Wall Street today. We call 4th Wall Street to flourish. It's about the economy. We'll go down. We go down. We go down. We go down. We go down. We go down. We go down. Mondo no no, no Monte de Salita De de ne ingaradou don't stand on it when you're when you're writing maybe pray with me Just so just so just so just so I've seen it But it's pushing through that It's pushing through that right there. I see it's about the economy, but that it's it's being blocked Not to get stela bahara makin garam on goo goo goo shungo to mama name They lay me le madame Hey, they made him on a mama make you just shoot us Hey ticket shot us head to know head to know it's the UN. I'm at the UN I'm seeing the flags and the long they long they long they long they long they long boo decilly They lay less elle bode dada de que sele both of those all rewardable about it. It is a day De de de de Facte race boat there them all In code aboutRequired new keep us on father and maybe carabato back Ernie co hard back with a messy momentlighted or messy La mandoc palan dando Bad un d leased all about mind, I never about taken any hair Mase le forsMary rather Step on them also go Heh, mí sií quíriá, hóra maram hó ta ra dánna. O crema manda, o crema manda, heh sí tií sií quí ní meh. Heh, que ní mí sií quí ní meh, budda basa. Bí de bóda basa, bí de bóda basa. Bí de bósí man, bí de bósí dán. Bí de móca, moste, mí de móda mando baree de. Mí di móda mando baree, mí costa, mí costa béri, mí costa béri bíste, mí costa béri bíste, mí costa béri bíste dós, mí costa béri bíste dós, dán de móda bán, mando móda bán, mí si tií si quí de bátato de bán. Dán, dán, dán, dán, dán, bící, bécí, bóda de bícá, móda mando. Hóturname ha'í, hóturname a'hópool to mai, hóturname a'hópool to mai, Osmi-kConte mus Sioux. Mík Impermy Size Cow. Thí con de me lo míceQaida, ice-c assa míceí. Let's go out there. Dec seed Abdo en pete Avgucer de y pungal. dark blue, light blue, black, gray. Oh no no no no. And it's in a camouflage pattern. And even white. It looks like a map. You know, whenever you, it looks like a map, you know, like each place would be a different place like on a map. But this looks like Africa. Mmm, I don't know. It's the sort of, it's a map. Cool. And then, and, and, and what would make them a different color than what would make a different color? What is a different color? We are supreme court judges playing into this. And the sea, and the sea, and the sea. I see, I don't day. I don't day. You know, it's, it's the one that was, it was put in there by Bush. Do you see his name? Roberts. Roberts. He, he, he, he, he, no, stop, stop, that by today. Yeah, that's him right there. That's what I'm looking at right there. He's in the spirit. This man right here is concerning him. No, no. No case we need to put away. Do I say that out loud? An African American man. Two. Two faces. Two faces. Shonanamota. Shonanamota. I see Kim. Kim. Commit. Kim. I see Kim's face. Two faces. Two faces. Maudou. Maudou, Mauda'ade. Maudou, Mauda'ade. Mika Le Shuchucho. Maudou, Mauda'ade. K'labut'alam. Two. Maudoulee. Maudoulee. Maudoulee. Palani. Palani. To the Balani. The Maudoulee. Maudoulee. Palani. Balani. Palani. To the Balani. K'labut'a Balan. K'labut'a Balan. Desi-li-kaladok-lumost-stalo. Te to-stalo. Paladou. Paladou. Paladou. Paladou. Paladou. Paladou. Paladou. Bon no bizala. No. Paladou. Oh, Palano. Hé-di-di-uschuglo. Bon no bali-dingo-nonanató-shalei. Ich-ko-di-boo-ci-li-mo-tal-im-o. Hé-li-i-i-i-i-i-kalabó-sale-mo-sale-mo. Hé-di-bese-i, hé-di-bese-i-i-kon-nand. Hé-di-dingo-sale-nand. And it's not very easy to know Ready, ready, ready, ready, ready, ready, go Ready and gold, ready and gold Ready and gold, the gold, the gold, the ready and the gold Let me know, supply, let me know, supply Let me see a great multiply, a great multiply You will see, you will see a great multiply A great multiply, lee kon ba no Rekon ba mo, lee siddi, reenem un de mo to de glang Lee kon de re mo klon de re mo kline Rezsingo de mo su lndemade Rotta to ker toooo RUN de resender mocelee Reocratsike, manul Anu no no no no no no no Rotta toda-remica show, ro random any column. Hey columns, the columns, the columns, the columns, they, they, they, soar on the track of the economy, going through the votes, going, going through the judges, going through precious metals, just keep this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, stupid, a new digital gold. Hm, Hm, the names, the names, the names of the digital golds. Cold the die, cold the die, Leisure's cold the die, meninicos, Cold the die, meninicos, a palano, Condo, Condo Nali, Condo the knowledge, the Condo Nali's, they both die. No, no, no, no, Risly Siro Pie, Condo Namao Rebego, Rondor Mornigo, Ris, the ego, the ego, Nunt, note, the note, take note, Nondei A, Nondei A, Oppo Shen, Oppo Shen, Oppo Shen, Oppo Shen, Oppo Shen, the Oppo Nesecicic, Hando dookoto, Hando dookoto, Hesese, Hanaleok, Hanaleokopostan, Hoakato kapatostan, Lele, Lele, Lele, Moosan, Lele, Lotion, Lele, Lotion, Bocano, Notion, Lekota Mechanical, Notion, it's from coast to coast to the ocean. The coast to coast to the ocean, Lagoon, the glug, Lagoon, the most of Rome, The most of Rome, the grown, The growing, the growing, the growing, More repeat, more kunamate, Rokota-ramate, Mustecosélébe, Rostecostecolémélé, Lele, Lele, Lele, Lele, The great foundation, the great foundation, Bolton, Bolton, Bolton, The boats, the boats, and the boats, And the foundation, the boats, And the foundation, Moquonamone, the moconamalton, Britechistusotaz, Rrecostecostarotan, Ritechistecostanontan, Brundamgrenet, Bridamgrenet, Breedee, Breedee, Woman, Roll the mould, Roll the mould. The Roll the mould, Mihan, Mihan de beast, Mecondabest, the beats, The beats, the beats, the beats, The best, Mihan de beast, Meno, the beast, The beast the foundation the foundation of the beast No, no, no, no, no day. Don't don't don't don't don't don't don't don't take leaking leaking the leaks Oh, makin them make make the makin make all make all make them the marking the make the make all the Sparkles into this la la la modeling day. All I'm an an on them big le Otter coat of coco putad info coat of Joe the cult the cult's no techniques the withdrawing the coat to belong They'reIm ascent I'm a little more till the leaky Louise deal bummed no multi- Salem go lang all about destroys He love is he like, lo lo lo lo lo lo lo sonai bookinai. Mmm. H'ntate. H'ntate. H'ntate. H'ntate. He's able. H'ntate be. He is able. He is able. He is able. He is able. M'ntune. He's m'ntune. He just sush. H'ntate usush. He is your source. He's your source. He is source. They're l'oo, m'ntune! M'nt1na iliy. Me themosai. M'nto laiyy by thee e Readum. themosai. Anyone I see a breakthrough in concerning our right again. I see Saddam. I see a breakthrough and Iraq again. They're gonna say, hey hold on it again. Don't get it. Don't let it go today. Let it go. Don't let it go today. You cook the book a little bit. I'm gonna cook the book a little bit. I'm gonna cook the book a little bit. I see a snake. The coming up. I'm gonna eat the corn. I'm gonna eat the corn. It's concerning the upper north. I see snakes coming up out of Pennsylvania. I see snakes coming up out of Minnesota. I see snakes coming up out of Michigan. They're snakes. They're snakes in there. Boston, I think about it. I see snakes in there. Boston, they're going to come down. They're baby snakes. They're babies. These are baby snakes and they're cold up and they have their heads up. They look like little cobras. But they're cold up and they're like this and they're looking and they're little snakes. This is corruption. Do you understand? They're corruption on the land. This is the snakes. They're in there. This is corruption. They're in there. They're snakes. These are democratic areas. This is concerning the corruption. This is the daycares. You understand? They're babies. This is concerning the corruption upon the land. Minnesota. Michigan. Ohio. The Boston area. But there's much corruption. Pennsylvania. Thetermine. Thetermine. Thetermine. Thetermine. I hear thetermine. Thetermine. Thetermine. Thetermine. iconic. bark. Mens.. This is a specific story to show otherwise, these symbols of the island to show how the people come to own it. Pretty far. the law. You're not emotionally, makuta say, you're not about the law. No, no, no. Eko queba, el eko quebala, eke el eko le bowla balla. Meht el es, meht your metaling, your meddling in this, tostostosto ba palimotas. Clearly to, you try to hide it from Pultas. The most of us, the most of us, the brightest, most of us, the brightest. Still it is steady bowl. Korten, Korten, Korten, who is Korten, Korten, Delhi, ekustalen, tostai le lehikustalen, nino no, houndestai, the hound and the disguise, they hung, they hung the disguise to come. Lee, pa, they will try to hide the disguise to come, bending, bending. They're bending the bath, they're bending their base, dokundo, they don't condone it, they're just, they'll abut, bele eke lehe, korten, korten, who's just nigh, moo, poh, poh, the cold, the cold, the cold, the colds will deny, the poles will deny, pon, de lee, bele lee, de, de, de, de, de, de, they're not in the lead. Dothin' e, bukundo, nino no, nino no, dekundo, son le no, dar, lee, kie pele, lee, kie pele, dee, keep the lays, the lies, the ties, the lies, and the guys, the lonon, they're clangling Lee, they'll claim to lead, may claim they claim to lead, they'll claim to lead, but the lies, the lies, the two le monde, lee, snick, lo, palan ingli moe, this is it, to see, this is a fault, the bay, this is what I'm trying to come the most just to believe, this is about the midterms, kunden ingum go palan o, kopo, ho, ho, halle, halle mote, this, halle mote, this, halle, there's a lot more to this, there's a lot more to this, no, dar, dar, dar, dee, they will try to deny today, we'll just nnnnnn, ba te made batti, ba te, mati, mati tae, mati tae mati tae m model, matimando mi the ni the mayor's the mayor, the don, da da dat walk, da nn no dee, the bush is suindest stung an ocarongo, You must come up closer. You must come up closer. I see General Flynn. Co-dala, the cudala, cudala, cudala, the dala, dos, dos, dos, dos, dos, hala moto, uno dos, so dos too, so dahala man, dahala man, botam, don't botam, botam, both of them, monde ningle, we pray over their mouth, praying over their influence, the pray over their influence to stoke, pralle, cle mote, dalam, for a leak, for a leak, custustustust o, clallely, Cro-co-man de leak, la mousta prandalee, cro-de-leek, la mousta prandalee, a plan to lead, a plan to lead, I wonder if he's going to try to do politics. A plan to lead, couta man, le le le ba de, le ba de, la la la louta-la-la louta-la lando, the Lulu, the Londo, the Mones. I bought this. And they moved the man. Did they moved the man? Yeah. Praying for him to lead a part of the land. It's just a decision. It's a decision. The bak, the bak, become an calling for leaders across the land. Strong leaders in position to take the land in positions of authority. We must have great positions of authority calling for leaders across the land. They have a backbone. Maudouma de desi. To take over these places. Leaders. For the midterms. Leaders. Spoke like Charlie Clark. Leaders. People to speak out and to be leaders in this. And you must have the monde maccador. Mene mocamando bo. Mene mocamando do. Ena han ena mahan ena bida le mocamando do. Buu da da asutoshlam. Le lee mote to come up against Islam. You must have leaders to come up against the Islam. Dee lee lee. Dee lee. They need to lead. Boku no dungo opulalan across the land. Lee lee lim marching orders. Dee shu te lee tostu te kopalanga. Te lee mocoto kolambang. Lee koto kolambang. Lee tocokolambang. Bee lee mopadokolambang. Lee lee bee. Lee lee bee. Dosta. So I see General Flynn. I see General Flynn across the land. Leading the nations. Speaking. Like leading people like Charlie Kirk. Like we need the Lord to pray for these leaders that will take the baton for like Charlie Kirk's. To speak be speaking against Islam. Taking across the land. Nand al konamon ne de basudis hai dee dee ese tostanoe. Hee dee dee nand al nand al kstanoe. Public figures. You know for sinners, our seats, judges, people that will rise up with a backbone like a crowbar for the land. We're seeing judges tonight. There's corruption in these states the Lord's saying. There's more corruption to come. Pennsylvania. There's corruption. Just like it is in Minnesota. There's corruption in these other blue states. And what is the red state? Swings red. He said it's a swing state. It's a storm. Ano ba. Ano ba. Mede dee monde hobo ba. Mede dee nand al nand al kstanoe. It's interesting. It's all up there East and stuff. I'm looking at it so close. It's so blue. And I see there's corruption. Just like in Minnesota. They did it all over the place. The Lord says. They did it all over the place. It's not just one place. There's a lot of corruption. Billions. It was because of Biden. No leadership. And they'll try to bury it and they'll push it out. It's acid wash. How do you get rid of this? They're scrambling like rats right now. I see them scrambling like rats right now. They're trying to bury us and it's too hard to bury. The level of the corruption that's about to come out. To you. Las Vegas. crucifix tonAN Nickedos radiets don't know about amen ones. in California, Gavin. Embarrassing moments. Embarrassing moments. Embarrassing moments even for Camilla. Embarrassing moments even for Camilla. There's some bad stuff there. I'm looking into it. Campaining. The worst they don't say nothing else. Laura, I could say it. I could say it, Laura. You just need to know that. Okay. I know. Thank you all for always praying for me, for my family, for my safety. It's like a talk to somebody. Cook the cook, the cook, the keestel, the keestel baradoko. Me de se lo boch. Me de se lo boch. Pass a day. The most important thing is the level of correction that is upon this land. There's layers. There's layers of fraud. The bottom line was right. About the 1.5 trillion layers of fraud. It's a stench. The layers of fraud. He tried to say something, didn't he? He did, didn't he? I'm going to say this. I see arrows that come out of Washington into Ukraine. They look like red arrows and they go into bank accounts into banks into Ukraine. Once they get into the bank account, pay very close attention to what I'm about to say. They go into a vault and then it's distributed out through many other little bank accounts. There's arrows. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. I count up to 8 arrows coming out of accounts. So 8 different people for sure that have mentioned on this. And the Lord said, don't forget the 24 billion. It's in an it's an involved. That was digital. These are wire transfers. Modemodemata. Wire transfers. And the thicker the arrow, the bigger the money came out of it. So some of them arrows are very thick. And some of them are skinny. Some of them come out and they're like they're red. But some of them are thicker than others. So they go, bigger the arrow, the bigger the money, the smaller the arrow, the smaller the money. But there's it's a string. It's all part of that money long. It's levels of levels and layers of money laundering and fraud. Very interesting though. If you get all that back, we wouldn't be in the national debt of so much. Trying to take down our beautiful nation. All these people deserve prison. They've done their own prison against our beautiful nation. They've tried it. They've tried to destroy this. Their day of judgment, the Lord said, has begun. They think they've escaped it in the natural, but they'll not escape it. Seed, time and harvest doesn't cease, son. What a man sows that will he reap. And the sower and the reaper are going hand in hand. And 2026, I'm going to cleanse the land. I'll cleanse the land in politics. I'll cleanse the land in your church for a shaking to awaken. Finances will flow. The catfish. It will look like he can only sustain it for so long. Trump. He is just buying time. Ride the wave. Pretty so. Pretty so. Me and the non darafati. I see Macron's face. He's so full of love. He's so full of love. He put Trump put a kink in the hose concerning Venezuela in the bricks. He put a kink in their hose. You see it in there, but it wasn't just ladies and gentlemen. It wasn't just a little garden hose. It's a fire hose. He put a fire hose in bricks. Kink. Concerning the financial flow. And it's a concern. And I see the same thing with Cuba. What's wrong? Do they kick me off? Huh? They try to kick me off. I've said too much. Is it good? Hmm. Hmm. Father, we just thank you, Father, for President Trump. We thank you, Lord, for wisdom. I pray peace over his mind tonight that he sleeps well. That he would hear you in the midnight hour on the direction he's supposed to do with Cuba. Give him boldness, Father. And our reassurance that he has nothing to lose, that he is fixing it before his term is over. He's run that time. He fixes it before his term is over. They're in our backyard. He fixes it before his term is over. Thank you, Father, that you protect our President. Give him wisdom and give him people around him that would encourage him to keep doing what he's doing. We're eliminating the people in the backyard that are bad. Get him ready for revival. A major revival is coming. And for you that don't see it, it's your loss. You don't see wisdom. Oh, it's this, it's that, yeah, it's politics, folks. But he's being led by the Lord. People don't even realize it. God has had it in on it because Jesus Christ, listen to me, Jesus Christ is coming. And most of you don't have a clue of how close he is to coming. Some people say 50 year, 100 year, one late said 100 years. One person said 30. Folks, Jesus Christ is coming. I know no man knows the day or the hour. But we know the signs as we look upon the fig tree, we see, we see the signs of the times all around us. And when we when we crossed over on the 23rd from Russia, Shana to Russia, Shana, things accelerated. Now when the Lord said, Brandon, it's even more accelerated when we've crossed into 2026 2026 2027 2028, it's going to be years like you've never seen. And we already seen it. Just like the Lord said, we started started out on the 3rd. Look at it. It's like it's it's nuts. I ran falling apart. People are protesting going crazy burning things, shooting a case in the air. You got a Venezuela going nuts. You got Israel and all the stuff going on in Israel and stuff happening in Ukraine and little Kim's behind on the phone looking like a pimp. I mean, coming on. Look at all of what's going on. The thing I know we don't see that. I'm telling you what I'm seeing in the spirit. But but folks, we're in a time like we've never seen before. And we just crossed over into it. We're day six tomorrow. Watch what happens and just in praying over the rest of this month. I'm leaving for the wealth transfer to start taking place. After we provide a lot tonight. Gold and the thing, Lord, digital gold. Supernatural increase with finances like we've never seen before. Getting certain gold and these other things that Lord was saying tonight. Believing God for supernatural. Like I said, I'm not a financial advisor, but like we can pray and do together and intercede and believe God because he's talking about it. And these two judges was all out of our, I have no idea. Praying into these two judges. I see change coming. Change is coming. It's time for corruption to be uncovered in a nation that's full of corruption. Financial corruption. More than you think Minnesota's something. Minnesota's just barely, we just barely open in the door to the corruption that's in this nation. Thank God for that young man that has the stones to expose it. We pray for him. Had to have protections around him that he had no weapon formed against that young man. Nick. Surely. We pray for Nick surely to be protected because he had the, you know what, to expose that. That's a major deal. It's not just something that he did. That's a huge deal. And there's more, much more what I just saw. The Lord said it was layers, layers and layers of corruption. Major, major stuff coming. We'd spray that we'll have more nicks to expose it. And then the Lord said a new Edward Snowden was coming that would make, what's his name? Yeah, Epstein, make upstream look like a cakewalk. The Epstein is nothing compared to what's about to be exposed. The Lord said a new Edward Snowden's coming. They make, Epstein looked like, like, like nothing. They focused on something to think they think it's something it ain't nothing compared to what's about to be exposed. I saw file cabinets full of decades of corruption and sexual perversion that have been covered up with the Vatican. File cabinets of things that they've paid off, people got paid off and shut up and don't say, and or say they're going to be in a great exposing of like a new Edward Snowden coming. So, all 9,100 of you, I think we just broke a record, did we not? For many people praying with us. Thank you for joining us tonight. All 9,100 of you, that's amazing. Praise God. Almost 10,000, I told Braden, I said, I'm believing God for 10,000 on a one-line screen. Wouldn't that be cool? All 10,000 praying, all believing that we, and you wonder why we are able to do things, ladies and gentlemen, because if one of us can put 1,000 to flight, think about almost 10,000 people almost. That's a lot of people praying, putting a lot of angels to flight, putting a lot of stuff going on. So, we're going to keep believing. So, Father, we just thank you, Lord, that Father will have the greatest turnout, voter turnout, even in November. But Father, just like you had us praying for General Flynn tonight, and leaders that will stick up and say things that are right. Now, I don't know some of these people, but I believe in God, that will have a great voter, people good to vote for, that are not corrupt. That will be people that will have integrity and stand for this nation and for our Constitution. For the Second Amendment for one, because I saw great attacks coming against the Second Amendment in the days ahead. The Lord said they have to disarm me, remember? And they'll be great attacks against the Second Amendment. And I saw it's the food supply to mess with the food supply and you're psychological. He said they're going to get a foothold in your media. They've lost their control with the media and the foothold they had with the media. And they will try to reestablish Fox, I'm not Fox, CNN, MSNBC, CBS, ABC, because this is part of the demonic Rockefeller agenda. And he said the Rockefellers in the agenda have to get a hold of your mind first with the media, fake news, then they'll get a hold of your food supply. And I saw plagues coming against our cows. And I saw a plague cows and they're going to come out and they say, well, we've got alternative meat sources. And I saw cricket murders and bug murders and all kinds of things coming. Because it bust them around and it's getting people and they're testosterone down with men so that they don't have a fighter inside of them. You're limp-rusted and they've got to take that testosterone down because there are too many people with guns. And then they get you in a passive way of thinking with their media and their crap they feed you. And the Lord said that this is how they're going to desensitize you, Brandon. This is what they're going to try to do in the days ahead. Then they'll start attacking religion. They'll start taking the freedom of speech. You can't say that, you know, it's not politically correct. Well, it's hate speech. You can't say that telling people they're going to hell. But he said, you'll see the greatest example of this this year in Canada and England. And he said, you'll see a great press come upon the Canadian people. And I saw an all of press pressing on all of us. I saw fresh oil come for and a great revival spring for out of Canada. But it will come out of persecution. The same with Australia. And I saw a new face, a new young man rising up in Australia that will take over and be bigger than Hillsong. With a girl named Lily singing and making music. A little blonde girl. They'll have brand new song because the Lord said, I'm bringing forth new worship that you've never heard before. I'm going to bring forth holy worship that it's not after dev awards, that it's after just worshiping me. And there'll be holy songs that bring in my glory. And I saw a new wave of worship hit the nation that was the most beautiful praise and worship you've ever because it was songs that come from the throne. The Lord told us that was coming. It's exciting. And I saw great revival of young people. I saw Holy Ghost Woodstock. They were all in the fields of brush Harbor churches. I still can't figure out why everybody's in brush Harbor churches out in the fields, but they don't have them in town. I think it's because of the plague that's coming. The people gather in the fields. They don't gather in towns. Probably like COVID. They wouldn't let anybody go outside. Try to put mask on everybody and lock them down. And I saw a great rising up saying we're not locking this down this time. I saw President Trump standing behind a pulpit like he always does with a red carpet behind him. Telling everybody that he's locking down all international flights in the days ahead. And then he says we won't have any flights going anywhere. To stop the spread. I saw a major plague coming again. I see a lot. People have no idea that COVID was a test run. It will be created through AI. I keep trying to warn you all. It will be created through AI and it will be spread through rats. Like a black plague. It could be metaphor that the Lord showed me how this is done. But the rats had red eyes. The rats don't have red eyes like that. But he shows me these things and people get all afraid about it. But it's linked with your medicine. Oesipics and things like that. You will freak out about stuff like that. But I'm trying to tell you. I saw they were lacing it and intertwining it with AI technology. Bringing back the bubonic plague and the black plague of death and they were intermingling it. And they were making it into a genetic code. And there was no vaccination to stop it. They'll tell you it is but it's not. I know what. And you went. It was done. I have to be careful what I say. You're there already. Try to shut me down tonight. But I try to warn you. People say win, win, win. I'm praying over fall of 2027 going into 2028. Not this year. And really, truly, really not 2027 until the end. I started seeing it on the news in the visions in November and December of 2027. It was the highlight of the time. So do we have time to pray over it? Yes. Can we stop it? I believe we can do anything through Christ or with all these people praying. How could you not try to stop some of this stuff? That's what we're here for. But I keep seeing it so I know it's still on track. But this time. This time. When was last time I saw it? Four days ago? Five days ago now? Yeah. Yeah. After the devil showed up. No, it was the day the devil showed up. What was that? That was Friday. Last Friday. I carry a lot. But I'm so thankful that God gave me big shoulders so we could pray for it. It's not mine to carry. I cast it over on him, but he told me to give it to y'all and you can pray with it. Pray over the fines, pray over the Europe. Pray over Italy in this major volcano that's about to go off. Pray over the Lord said even was it? Last night we were praying and when he came visit, he said, watch the fish from the deep come up on Oregon's coast. It's a sign that a major volcano is about to erupt out on your coastline. And it will cause a massive tsunami wave all throughout the coast of Oregon. I saw British Columbia shaking. 30,000 people will go home that day. In British Columbia. All the coast of all the way up to Alaska will be on fire for some reason. I don't know why. If a pipeline, there's something wrong. But I saw a major shaking even on the pipeline of like gas. Something's wrong with the, but on the coastline, water comes clearing to Seattle. This is a major, major, major earthquake that's about to take place with volcano eruption. And the Lord said your first sign of what you're about to see. What you're about to see is the fish dying in the deep. Hey, we hit the 10,000 all glory to God for the first time. Now, it bounced out people left. They don't want to hear this. Oh, I think it's just glitching around. But it's very close to the volcano. Too cool. Huh? All glory to Jesus. 10,000. That's pretty neat. We believe God for that number. So. The fish from the depth. Yep. Fish from the depth. You'll start to see these fish pop up on your beaches. And you'll see colonies of wells begin to die from the wet, from what's in the water. There's something wrong with the water and it's coming in the days ahead. You'll remember this video that I told you this. When you see the signs of the fish coming up from the depth that have never been seen before. You'll know it's even closer. There's a major volcano that's going to erupt out in the specific ocean. By Oregon. Okay. It is massive when it goes off and it will cause a massive tsunami wave. I saw it happening. And a major earthquake is about to take place in British Columbia. I don't know when it could be a year from now two years. You said, well, Brandon, you missed it. It never happened. I see him part here in part. But when I'm telling you, I see the same thing over and over and over repeated visions. This is a major warning. If I see it once, like the water then poisoning with fentanyl and killing 23 million people down on the coast. I've not talked about it again. It's only happened. I've only seen it twice. A major poisoning of the water with fentanyl from the drug lords are retaliating. And they poison water plants down in Louisiana, Alabama and that area down there. And I saw many people drinking the water and they didn't realize their poison would fit in all. It was in the water. People said, Brandon, do you not see anything good? Yeah, I see your revival. But the Lord said, I've called you to say the hard things. I'm not calling you to say the things and tell the people to pray that are bad. That nobody else might have the courage to say, tell them, tell them to pray and they can change things through prayer. And so I do this. And I try to teach you about the authority of the believer. It's not an easy place to stand you all and tell you all this stuff. And a lot of you are not even from America that are watching right now. A lot of you are, well, it's 1030. So it's not too late. It might be you, a lot of Americans. I usually, I'm talking to the Australians right now. They're always usually the ones praying with me right now because I usually come on late. And so we start late until Australians are usually watching. But the Lord said, Brandon, I want you to start going on earlier and go on around eight, seven o'clock because I'm seven, eight o'clock backwards. But so that the Americans can pray because you live there. So, you know, so we're coming on earlier. That's why we came on tonight at eight 30. I told Braden, I said, we've got to do it earlier. The Lord said, do earlier. So here we are. So praying. So we see the plague coming and we see a major earthquakes in California. And I saw a major revival come into Hollywood. I saw the porn industry struggling because people wasn't looking at trash. That there'll be a great revival come, ladies and gentlemen. So those are the good things I see. Usually it's about revival and finances, the blessing on on on cryptos and things like that. The Lord tells me and that's exciting. But 99.9% of the stuff is words of prayer to stop things. So, so can we stop the earthquake in Oregon and all that? I don't think so. I think we can lessen it and you can pray for the people to be okay. But just like we prayed for New Year's Eve and we prayed for the protection over those people, we stopped that. Look at how many people were busted. And we're found out by our awesome law enforcement. So can we stop an earthquake? Tendency usually we see something. You know, so we'll keep praying. And praying for California, praying for the fish. That's a major sign when you start seeing fish coming up out of the depth of the water that you've never seen before. This is what the Lord said. And then is this what you show me today, son? Yeah, this guy's murder. Yeah, who is this dude right here? Yeah, I don't know what you say. He's coming into that fish. So it's already happening. So how many times has the Lord warned us about the fish? I saw lots of fish dead. One or two dead fish. How many fishes he's not seen? Then you see fish from the depth. They get you set. Huh? You see fish from the depth. Yeah, fish from the depth. It's harbingers. The Lord's trying to warn you. And I've been prophesying, if you go back in my, Braden's going to make us short and tell you how many times the Lord has warned this about this to validate what we're saying about what I'm seeing yesterday again. And then Braden, find a video today by somebody. I don't know. How do you find that? Let us put it on viral and then people are saying it too. Okay. It's going viral. So half a million people watched it. Five hundred and thirty five thousand people watch the video because this is, there should be an alert. Inside of you. Then I saw Japan being split. I saw major stuff coming, y'all. So I think we've prayed enough for President Trump tonight. You, I didn't say it lifted. So I. Yeah. And he said he came from a, he said they too. Whatever he said he can say too. He came from a Supreme Court two shot step down. I don't know if that's a good thing. Oh, no. That's really detailed. He always sees part and then I, and then, and then also showing me to play. Two for sure. Two. I saw two men and I even told who they were. That's, that's hard. And those. There are those who are in a strong position. I'm just hearing this now. In the highest court in the land. The highest court in the land. The Supreme Court. Two shall step down. For the embarrassment of what shall take place. But I wish to place in the highest court in the land. Righteousness. And they shall attempt to put others in to endeavor, to reach the endeavors that God says, hear me tonight. Hear me today. I have this whole thing planned out. According to my will. Point is now time for me to restore the fortunes of Zion. The fortunes to those that had it once. You are going to get it back. This is my promise says the Lord of Oz. Give it a while. He even talked about some money right then. Did you hear that? Yeah. He talked about the fine. This is what I've been, this is what I was seeing tonight. About the money. Gold by three. You remember? Yeah. He said times three. Yeah. Gold by times three. So four. It's four forty five. You have to do the math on it. Right. It's a good practice. Yeah. Well, yeah. I'm not, this is not financial advice. Yeah. Don't, don't, don't mess with it. I'm not trying to tell no sister, nobody to do anything. So y'all, you all pray about it yourself. So many people are so immature. I tried to be so open with y'all, but I can't. What I, what I'm seeing. So, you know, you pray about it. But, but we saw, I saw something. And there's, and there's. Embarrassing moments. This is what the air words snow would, snowed and things happen. I pray this is not for these two people. I, I saw Edwards and I saw the black man. African American man. And I saw their faces tonight. Two faces. And then the Lord showed me Kim's face. Huh? And then he showed me the other. So, I don't know, I don't know what to say about that. That's very, that's very touchy. That's pretty, pretty. So y'all. Pray about that. I don't know what to say about that. 10,000 people. But, you know, y'all, I just, I call out what I'm seeing in the division. So we'll see what happens, you know. Dear Lord. So did I, did all I, I, I, I think it's all clear now. I can pray for it to see all the spirit we just asked you. Is there anything else? If not, I'm gonna go on. We're so grateful for every people, all the people that are here tonight. And Lord, we thank you Lord that you're exposing the corruption in Ukraine. You're exposing those accounts. You're exposing and I thank you Lord that our nation is strong. And we thank you Lord for President Trump. And we thank you Lord that our families are blessed, that are representing here tonight. Father, I thank you Lord that every single one of them would have a restful sleep. Uninterrupted and unhindered by any satan or demonic force. I bless them in Jesus' name. If there, if there's any of you here right now and you've never asked Jesus Christ as your Lord and personal savior, I don't want to close this broadcast without asking you, do you know my friend? If you're here tonight and you've never asked Jesus Christ to be your personal savior tonight, tonight's your night. I wanted to say a simple prayer for you. And I want you to repeat this prayer after me and I want you to say it with all your heart, with your mouth, say it with your mouth, with the heart confessions made, with the mouth confessions made with your by your heart. Just say it. Just say it and just mean it with all you've got. Jesus, I need you. I believe that there's a lot of you that are riding the fence with Christianity or you wouldn't be here. Maybe you're just curious because of prophetic words that have come to pass here recently. And you're just like, who is this guy? I'm just branding. I was the next sinner that was saved by grace just like you're going to be. But I messed up a lot and God gave me a chance. And he'll give you a chance if you ask him. If he'd give me a chance, he'll give anybody a chance. I was once lost, but now I'm found. And I'm so grateful that he would extend his hand to me and say, Brandon, I'm pulling you out of that pit. The pit of despair, the pit of pain, the pit of anxiety, the pit of depression. How many times I was on the road of destruction in my life and Jesus pulled me out of it. And he's no respecter of persons. And what he did for me, he'll do for you. You say, well, Brandon, I'm battling depression. I'm battling suicide. I'm battling addiction. I'm battling pornography. I'm battling alcohol. I'm battling cigarettes. I'm battling all these things. My marriage is bad. I've done all this stuff. Would Jesus forgive me? Would he help me? Yes. Yes. He's an ever-present helping a time of need. He's always there wanting to help. The moment you say yes, he is there. His arms are wide open. He's on your door right now at your door and he's knocking on the door of your heart. And he's just saying, would you let me in? Will you give me a chance? There's many of you that think that you're too far gone for God to forgive. But there's nothing too big for God to forgive. It's by grace. You are saved. The moment you confess your sins, he is faithful and just to forgive you of your sins and cleanse you of all in righteousness. I don't care how bad of a sin or you have been. I don't care how bad you think you are. I really want you to search your heart right now and ask yourself, if you were to die tonight, where would you spend eternity? All 10,000 of you right now, I know there's probably at least one. For millions have come, but there's still room for one. Is you all on the altar today? Is you all? Have you given him all? Does the heart, does the spirit control? For millions have come, but there's still room for one. As you yield him your body and soul. We yield and we want you Jesus. So tonight, if you're here tonight, you're watching this right now, I want to ask you, do you know my friend? And more importantly, does he know you? It's appointed unto man once to die and after that to judgment. The very shoes you put on today to go to work or do whatever you're going to do, the undertaker might be taking them off that night. No one's promised tomorrow. You salvation is now. Now is the time for salvation. You must know my friend. I want to say the simple prayer, but I want you to be bold about your decision. If you really are all in and you're saying I'm all in, I want to be all in for Jesus in 2026. I want to start my year out right. I want to turn my back on the devil. I'm tired of living the way I'm living. I'm tired of having a marriage like this and I want to fix things. I want to sell out to the Lord tonight. I'm tired of having kids that are the way they are or whatever. You're just so tormented inside in your, but Jesus is the solution to all your stuff. Stop running from him. Give all to him tonight. So if I'm talking to you and you feel that tug on your heart, I want you to put in the comment section tonight tonight. Tonight's my night. I want to be born again. Tonight's my night. I'm turning back to Jesus. I used to be on fire for the Lord, but I've been wayward and I've been out doing what I shouldn't be doing. I've been messing around. I've been doing bad stuff, but tonight's my night. I want to come home. I don't want to be this way. No more Brandon. And just like the prodigal son, he was in the pig pen. He spent all his inheritance. He's busted and disgusted all upset about everything. He thought, man, if I could just go back to my dad's house and be a servant, maybe he'll let me back in because I'm tired of eating this where I'm at. And he ran and as he was coming, his father saw him coming and he had a, he had the robe. He said, kill the fatticat. My boy is coming home. And tonight's the night. We're dads about to kill the fatticat for you. And he has a robe and he's ready for you. And he's saying, welcome home. Welcome home daughter. Welcome home son. I never left you. He said, I never left you, but you left me and I'll always stay in the right where you left me. Tonight's your night. Just repeat the simple prayer after me. Jesus, I believe you're the son of God. I believe you died from me and you rose again on the third day. I ask you to forgive me of my sins. Tonight's my night, Lord. I'm coming home. I ask you to write my name in the Lamb's book of life. As of today, I turn my back on the world. I turn my back on the devil. I turn my back on the sin that I was doing. And from this day forward, Lord, I'll serve you. I sell out to you, Lord. I'm all in. I ask you to forgive me, Lord. Thank you, Lord, that as from this day forward, I'm saved. From this day forward, I'm sold out to you. Thank you, Lord, that I have a brand new start and I'm all yours. Thank you, Lord, for making me new. It's something you did learn and something you did deserve. It's grace. He loves you. Welcome home. Welcome home. I'm excited for every single one of you that just read that prayer. You said it with your own heart. I believe you just got born again. Now, what do you do? You go to a Bible believe in church. Don't go back to a dead church. Go, I'd say, a non-denominational church. And get plugged in there. Read your Bible every day. Come pray with us. Pray with it by yourself. But be real with God and God to get real with you. It's not religious. It's relationship. Stop trying to treat God as some Pharisee, hermeneutical, you know, weirdness. I'm just be real with God. Hey, I had a bad day today. Can you help me out? I need you to become more real to me. Do you understand? I think it's so much that people try to put God into some kind of box that he's too hard to touch. That he's always there as a friend. And when you become a friend to God, God, I become a friend to you. I want to be your friend. I want to know you more. I want to be intimate with you. Thank you, Lord, that you'll part my Red Sea. Thank you, Lord, that you'll cause the burning bush experience for me. You're no respect to your persons. And what you did for Moses, you'll do for me. What you did for Abraham, you'll do for me. What you did for Shadrach, Meshach, and the Bindergoth, and the Firey Furnace, you'll do for me. I thank you, Lord, for those beautiful, beautiful stories, the beautiful things that you did in the Bible. But God, I thank you that the God of the Bible is real to me. It's not just some book. It's alive. So when you get this book down inside of your heart, it'll change you from the inside out. And for somebody who's had problems reading, I have to listen to it. I'm so thankful that Jesus Christ paid the price for me. So all 92 of you that gave your heart to Jesus Christ tonight, welcome to the family. We're excited that you got born again tonight. Welcome to the family, all 92 of you. That's wonderful. So if you don't have a Bible, my wife and I will buy you your Bible for free. All you have to do is email us in the description down below and just say, I got born again tonight. All 92 of you have, you need a Bible. Say, hey, I like to have a Bible. My wife and I will send you a Bible. Read that Bible every single day. When you go to the church, you're going to go to tell that pastor, I need to be water baptized. I got born again on a YouTube broadcast and I want to get water baptized to start my 2026 outright. Get water baptized, take pictures and send them to us. We'd be so excited to see that you got water baptized and you gave your heart and who you are and rejoice with you that you gave your heart to Jesus Christ. And come back, subscribe, click the notification bell, do all the things to be a part of our YouTube channel. We're believing for a million men and women prayer warriors in 2026. We're almost to 600,000. Isn't Jesus wonderful? We started out, you know, just like everybody else with nothing and look what the Lord has done. Almost 600,000 people have joined up with us and 10,000 of you are here right now. So isn't that amazing? That's a mega church. That's a big church right there. We have, we have, how many, son? Yeah. Five hundred ninety sixty two people. Are part of our prayer channel. And then we have the others, China, South Korea and all the others and they're growing too. Isn't that wonderful Spanish Portuguese? I tell you what, when, when, when Venezuela fell and all that happened, the Portuguese channel exploded. They were so excited. So I guess, did they speak Portuguese over there? Spanish, you know, Spanish and movie. But it's sure to win. It started taking off really big when they started posting that. So Braden's working on shorts for you all. Spanish. Spanish. So, uh, Braden is working on shorts for you all. I wonder why Portuguese took off so much. Isn't that interesting? Mm. Things you just can't explain. But, uh, he's working on the shorts. He's working on things. And so we're, we're, we're starting out 2026 with a full steam head. We haven't got for big 2026. We know that God has a lot for us to do and we're so thankful that you're a part of it. Um, I think I'll close it there. We love you all. Thank you for joining us. Remember, we put a smile on your face in a song in your heart. Jesus loves you so much and we love you. God bless you and we'll see you again soon. Bye bye.
