Timestamp: 2025-05-22T10:21:23.899746
Title: Testing Google’s NEW Agentic Coding Tool (Jules Real-World Demo!)
URL: https://youtube.com/watch?v=YBO35WCqzF8&si=01ABkbWHOjNLT-wU
Status: success
Duration: 20:20

Description:
以下是文本内容的摘要，按照要求的结构和格式呈现：

**文本摘要：**

1.  **引言:**
    *   介绍了谷歌新推出的代理式软件工程工具 Jules，并与 OpenAI 的 Codeex 进行了对比。
    *   强调 Jules 是新发布的，作者对此工具的研究不多，视频内容主要是一个上手体验。

2.  **初次设置与功能:**
    *   说明了如何获得 Jules 的访问权限（注册兴趣并等待邮件）。
    *   描述了连接 GitHub 的过程，可以选择访问所有仓库或特定仓库。
    *   提到了隐私设置，用户可以选择是否允许模型用其数据进行训练（与 Codeex 相似，但位置不同）。
    *   作者选择使用其流行的开源社交机器人仓库进行测试。

3.  **任务 1：仓库总结与分析:**
    *   要求 Jules 总结仓库内容并识别重要部分。
    *   Jules 首先克隆仓库并阅读 README 文件，然后制定了行动计划。
    *   Jules 识别出重要的文件和脚本（如 Arduino Sketches, Unity 项目文件夹, C# 脚本），特别是 Robo Listen 和 Robo Logic 脚本，以及与本地 LLM 集成相关的部分。
    *   作者注意到 Codeex 在显示代码引用方面做得更好。
    *   Jules 还识别了关于面部投影仪校准的 README 文件，认为其很重要。
    *   Jules 提供了潜在的改进建议，包括增强注释、依赖管理、替代硬件探索、软件测试框架、版本控制文档（包括 3D 模型）以及错误处理/日志记录等。作者认为这些建议偏向通用质量改进，与 Codeex 更侧重软件本身的修改不同。

4.  **任务 2：修改 API 调用:**
    *   要求 Jules 修改 `robologic.cs` 脚本，将 API 调用从原有的本地 LLM 集成更改为使用谷歌 Gemini API。
    *   Jules 制定了计划，并正确识别了需要修改的脚本。
    *   Jules 首先研究了 Gemini API 的文档、请求结构、API 密钥包含方式等。
    *   Jules 实施了代码更改，包括添加新的数据结构、更新脚本以从 Unity Inspector 获取 API 密钥和模型名称，并更新了 README 文件和代码注释。
    *   提供了修改前后的代码对比视图，方便审查。

5.  **发布与验证:**
    *   Jules 尝试将更改推送到 GitHub，虽然界面显示失败，但随后按钮变为“查看分支”，表明更改已在 GitHub 上可用。
    *   作者手动通过 GitHub 界面创建并合并了 Jules 生成的拉取请求。
    *   为了验证更改是否奏效，作者构建并运行了社交机器人应用。
    *   通过与机器人的对话确认了 Gemini API 的成功集成（机器人回应“I'm a large language model trained by Google.”）。

6.  **结论:**
    *   尽管任务相对简单，但 Jules 成功地自主识别、修改代码并实现了功能的替换，且修改后的代码一次性工作正常。
    *   作者认为 Jules 的代码修改能力令人印象深刻，特别是对于 C# 代码的修改。
    *   视频是一个真实的动手测试，展示了 Jules 的实际工作流程和能力。
    *   作者避免与 Codeex 进行深入比较，仅限于表面观察，因为未对两者进行相同的测试。

**核心观点总结 (一句话):**

谷歌的 Jules 成功地自主完成了将社交机器人代码库中的大型语言模型 API 调用从本地模型切换到谷歌 Gemini API 的复杂修改任务，并通过实际运行验证了更改的有效性。

**总体框架 (Overarching Framework):**

AI 辅助的软件开发与代码库管理流程。

**Mermaid 概念图:**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    A["用户 (Vibe 程序员)"] --> B{"使用 Jules 工具"};

    subgraph "初次设置"
        B --> C["连接 GitHub 仓库"];
        B --> D["配置隐私设置"];
    end

    subgraph "任务工作流"
        B --> E{"提交任务请求"};
        E --> F["Jules 接收任务"];

        subgraph "任务 1: 仓库总结"
            F --> G["分析仓库结构"];
            G --> H["总结关键文件/功能"];
            G --> I["提出改进建议"];
        end

        subgraph "任务 2: API 修改"
            F --> J["理解修改需求"];
            J --> K["研究目标 API 文档 (Gemini)"];
            K --> L["识别需修改代码 (robologic.cs)"];
            L --> M["实施代码更改"];
            M --> N["更新文档 (README)"];
        end

        H --> O["审查总结结果"];
        I --> O;
        M --> P["审查代码更改 (侧边对比)"];
        N --> P;

        P --> Q{"是否批准更改?"};
        Q -- "是" --> R["Jules 准备发布"];
        Q -- "否" --> E; %% 用户提供反馈或新的请求

    end

    R --> S["推送更改到 GitHub"];
    S --> T["用户手动合并拉取请求"];
    T --> U["更新后的仓库"];
    U --> V["构建并运行应用程序"];
    V --> W{"验证功能是否工作"};

    W -- "工作正常" --> X["任务成功 (Gemini 集成生效)"];
    W -- "不工作" --> E; %% 回到任务请求，进行调试或重试

    X --> Y["完成/评估工具能力"];

    subgraph "关键实体"
        github_repo["GitHub 仓库 (社交机器人)"]
        jules["谷歌 Jules (AI 工具)"]
        codeex["OpenAI Codeex (对比)"]
        gemini_api["谷歌 Gemini API (目标集成)"]
    end

    C --> github_repo;
    github_repo --> G;
    github_repo --> L;
    S --> github_repo;
    jules --> B;
    jules --> F;
    jules --> R;
    gemini_api --> K;

    style A fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px;
    style B fill:#FFFFCC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style C fill:#D3D3D3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style D fill:#D3D3D3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style E fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style F fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style G fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style H fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style I fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style J fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style K fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style L fill:#FFFFCC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style M fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style N fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style O fill:#FFB6C1,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style P fill:#FFB6C1,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style Q fill:#FFFFCC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style R fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style S fill:#D3D3D3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style T fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style U fill:#D3D3D3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style V fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style W fill:#FFFFCC,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style X fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px;
    style Y fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;

    style github_repo fill:#D3D3D3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style jules fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px;
    style codeex fill:#D3D3D3,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    style gemini_api fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en I'm going to go the extra mile here and I'm going to go the extra mile here and I'm going to go the extra mile here and actually go ahead and make sure that the actually go ahead and make sure that the actually go ahead and make sure that the changes that Jules has actually made do changes that Jules has actually made do changes that Jules has actually made do work. The past week has been quite work. The past week has been quite work. The past week has been quite exciting for the vibe coders among us exciting for the vibe coders among us exciting for the vibe coders among us because not only did Open AI release an because not only did Open AI release an because not only did Open AI release an agentic software engineering tool called agentic software engineering tool called agentic software engineering tool called Codeex, but now Google has entered Codeex, but now Google has entered Codeex, but now Google has entered themselves into that same ring with the themselves into that same ring with the themselves into that same ring with the introduction of what we see right here introduction of what we see right here introduction of what we see right here called Jules. Now, first and foremost, I called Jules. Now, first and foremost, I called Jules. Now, first and foremost, I do just kind of want to mention out in do just kind of want to mention out in do just kind of want to mention out in the open here that I've not done a ton the open here that I've not done a ton the open here that I've not done a ton of reading about Jules or a lot of of reading about Jules or a lot of of reading about Jules or a lot of research with it. If this is something research with it. If this is something research with it. If this is something you actually do want to play with, all I you actually do want to play with, all I you actually do want to play with, all I had to do personally was just sign up had to do personally was just sign up had to do personally was just sign up with my email that I was interested in with my email that I was interested in with my email that I was interested in testing it. And then I think like a few testing it. And then I think like a few testing it. And then I think like a few hours or a day later, I got an email hours or a day later, I got an email hours or a day later, I got an email saying, "Okay, you've been granted saying, "Okay, you've been granted saying, "Okay, you've been granted access to play with this. " Nothing access to play with this. " Nothing access to play with this. " Nothing special was involved. So, I would special was involved. So, I would special was involved. So, I would imagine that for anyone interested in imagine that for anyone interested in imagine that for anyone interested in doing the same thing, your experience doing the same thing, your experience doing the same thing, your experience would mirror mine, hopefully. Now, once would mirror mine, hopefully. Now, once would mirror mine, hopefully. Now, once we are actually in this, the only thing we are actually in this, the only thing we are actually in this, the only thing I've done here is just basically clicked I've done here is just basically clicked I've done here is just basically clicked connect to GitHub and chose to allow it connect to GitHub and chose to allow it connect to GitHub and chose to allow it to either access all of my repositories to either access all of my repositories to either access all of my repositories or select a few repositories that it or select a few repositories that it or select a few repositories that it would access. I chose to just allow it would access. I chose to just allow it would access. I chose to just allow it to access everything. As you can see to access everything. As you can see to access everything. As you can see right here, all of my public right here, all of my public right here, all of my public repositories are actually listed here. repositories are actually listed here. repositories are actually listed here. Now, something that I know a lot of Now, something that I know a lot of Now, something that I know a lot of folks took issue with or not issue but folks took issue with or not issue but folks took issue with or not issue but were concerned about with codecs when I were concerned about with codecs when I were concerned about with codecs when I did a video on that is are they going to did a video on that is are they going to did a video on that is are they going to use your GitHub repository data to train use your GitHub repository data to train use your GitHub repository data to train these models. So, in OpenAI codeex when these models. So, in OpenAI codeex when these models. So, in OpenAI codeex when setting that up, there was basically a setting that up, there was basically a setting that up, there was basically a toggle button where you could either toggle button where you could either toggle button where you could either choose to allow or disallow training of choose to allow or disallow training of choose to allow or disallow training of the model on your data. And in Jules the model on your data. And in Jules the model on your data. And in Jules here, when I actually connected it to here, when I actually connected it to here, when I actually connected it to GitHub, I didn't see anything like that. GitHub, I didn't see anything like that. GitHub, I didn't see anything like that. So fortunately I am happy to report that So fortunately I am happy to report that So fortunately I am happy to report that up here in the settings icon if we click up here in the settings icon if we click up here in the settings icon if we click it we can basically go ahead and choose it we can basically go ahead and choose it we can basically go ahead and choose to allow or disallow the model to be to allow or disallow the model to be to allow or disallow the model to be trained on our data. So um honestly I trained on our data. So um honestly I trained on our data. So um honestly I just don't really care um for any of just don't really care um for any of just don't really care um for any of these repositories here. So I am going these repositories here. So I am going these repositories here. So I am going to just leave everything the default way to just leave everything the default way to just leave everything the default way that it is right now. But basically with that it is right now. But basically with that it is right now. But basically with that I think we're just going to jump that I think we're just going to jump that I think we're just going to jump right in and start playing with this and right in and start playing with this and right in and start playing with this and get a feel for it and see how Jules get a feel for it and see how Jules get a feel for it and see how Jules stacks up to codeex. So just as I did stacks up to codeex. So just as I did stacks up to codeex. So just as I did with codeex, I am going to opt to use with codeex, I am going to opt to use with codeex, I am going to opt to use the repository for my social robot where the repository for my social robot where the repository for my social robot where basically you can just kind of get basically you can just kind of get basically you can just kind of get everything to build this from this everything to build this from this everything to build this from this repository. Obviously you have to 3D repository. Obviously you have to 3D repository. Obviously you have to 3D print and buy electronics and stuff, but print and buy electronics and stuff, but print and buy electronics and stuff, but the software for it is basically a Unity the software for it is basically a Unity the software for it is basically a Unity game running a social companion chatbot. game running a social companion chatbot. game running a social companion chatbot. It is open source and as we can see It is open source and as we can see It is open source and as we can see here, it is highly popular. So with here, it is highly popular. So with here, it is highly popular. So with that, we're just going to go back into that, we're just going to go back into that, we're just going to go back into Jules right here. I have selected that Jules right here. I have selected that Jules right here. I have selected that repository from the dropdown and then repository from the dropdown and then repository from the dropdown and then you can actually go ahead and select the you can actually go ahead and select the you can actually go ahead and select the specific branch as well. Being that specific branch as well. Being that specific branch as well. Being that there only is one available for that there only is one available for that there only is one available for that repository, we will opt to stick with repository, we will opt to stick with repository, we will opt to stick with that. Now I am basically just going to that. Now I am basically just going to that. Now I am basically just going to first and foremost ask it to essentially first and foremost ask it to essentially first and foremost ask it to essentially sum up what this repository is and try sum up what this repository is and try sum up what this repository is and try to pick out some important parts of this to pick out some important parts of this to pick out some important parts of this repository that would be pertinent for repository that would be pertinent for repository that would be pertinent for someone working on it to know about. So a basic general but good first So a basic general but good first So a basic general but good first introductory test for this I would say. introductory test for this I would say. introductory test for this I would say. Now we can see up here that Jules is Now we can see up here that Jules is Now we can see up here that Jules is experiencing high load. Tasks may experiencing high load. Tasks may experiencing high load. Tasks may experience increased latency. So there's experience increased latency. So there's experience increased latency. So there's a lot of people who want to play with a lot of people who want to play with a lot of people who want to play with this right now. So my task is cued and this right now. So my task is cued and this right now. So my task is cued and will start shortly. And being that this will start shortly. And being that this will start shortly. And being that this is the first time that I have actually is the first time that I have actually is the first time that I have actually played with this, I have not done played with this, I have not done played with this, I have not done anything with this off camera or anything with this off camera or anything with this off camera or anything like that. Um I suppose this is anything like that. Um I suppose this is anything like that. Um I suppose this is acceptable. So I will fast forward until acceptable. So I will fast forward until acceptable. So I will fast forward until the task actually begins to occur. All the task actually begins to occur. All the task actually begins to occur. All right, after a little bit of time it has right, after a little bit of time it has right, after a little bit of time it has begun and the first thing we see right begun and the first thing we see right begun and the first thing we see right here is just that it is cloning the here is just that it is cloning the here is just that it is cloning the GitHub repository and it seems to be GitHub repository and it seems to be GitHub repository and it seems to be beginning just by reading through the beginning just by reading through the beginning just by reading through the readme. So that is definitely good readme. So that is definitely good readme. So that is definitely good practice for any of the vibe coders practice for any of the vibe coders practice for any of the vibe coders amongst us. All right. So I basically amongst us. All right. So I basically amongst us. All right. So I basically All right. So this seems to be some All right. So this seems to be some All right. So this seems to be some outline or plan of action that it is outline or plan of action that it is outline or plan of action that it is going to follow and it's just basically going to follow and it's just basically going to follow and it's just basically showing me about that it has created the showing me about that it has created the showing me about that it has created the plan to gather information about the plan to gather information about the plan to gather information about the repository, identify key scripts and repository, identify key scripts and repository, identify key scripts and suggest potential improvements. Please suggest potential improvements. Please suggest potential improvements. Please review it and let me know if you have review it and let me know if you have review it and let me know if you have any feedback. Cool. Um we'll just take a any feedback. Cool. Um we'll just take a any feedback. Cool. Um we'll just take a look at what the drop- down arrows here look at what the drop- down arrows here look at what the drop- down arrows here show us. Okay. Okay, so mention the show us. Okay. Okay, so mention the show us. Okay. Okay, so mention the Arduino sketches, highlight the Unity Arduino sketches, highlight the Unity Arduino sketches, highlight the Unity project folders, and point out the C project folders, and point out the C project folders, and point out the C scripts in the local LLM for LLM scripts in the local LLM for LLM scripts in the local LLM for LLM integration. All right, not bad. So, it integration. All right, not bad. So, it integration. All right, not bad. So, it did craft this plan based off of what it did craft this plan based off of what it did craft this plan based off of what it actually saw when it cloned the actually saw when it cloned the actually saw when it cloned the repository. I Okay, well, I'm glad this repository. I Okay, well, I'm glad this repository. I Okay, well, I'm glad this was on camera because I'm like 89% sure was on camera because I'm like 89% sure was on camera because I'm like 89% sure that I didn't just click approve, but that I didn't just click approve, but that I didn't just click approve, but maybe it auto approved it or something maybe it auto approved it or something maybe it auto approved it or something like that. I am not sure. So while it is like that. I am not sure. So while it is like that. I am not sure. So while it is working I guess I will just start going working I guess I will just start going working I guess I will just start going over some of the things that is over some of the things that is over some of the things that is identified here. Now obviously some of identified here. Now obviously some of identified here. Now obviously some of these are fairly simple and as I had these are fairly simple and as I had these are fairly simple and as I had said for codeex just basically giving a said for codeex just basically giving a said for codeex just basically giving a summary of this repository could be done summary of this repository could be done summary of this repository could be done by a much simpler smaller local LLM by a much simpler smaller local LLM by a much simpler smaller local LLM because it can see the readme and because it can see the readme and because it can see the readme and understand the gist of what the understand the gist of what the understand the gist of what the repository is aimed to accomplish. repository is aimed to accomplish. repository is aimed to accomplish. However, beyond that, I find what's However, beyond that, I find what's However, beyond that, I find what's interesting is when it goes in and interesting is when it goes in and interesting is when it goes in and starts to identify the important starts to identify the important starts to identify the important information pertaining to the actual information pertaining to the actual information pertaining to the actual scripts that it finds important. So, it scripts that it finds important. So, it scripts that it finds important. So, it did mention some of these readme PDFs did mention some of these readme PDFs did mention some of these readme PDFs are important because they kind of guide are important because they kind of guide are important because they kind of guide you through getting the necessary parts you through getting the necessary parts you through getting the necessary parts and things to actually build the and things to actually build the and things to actually build the physical robot. But beyond that, it did physical robot. But beyond that, it did physical robot. But beyond that, it did mention the Arduino sketch. But more mention the Arduino sketch. But more mention the Arduino sketch. But more importantly and what I'm more interested importantly and what I'm more interested importantly and what I'm more interested in is seeing what specific car scripts in is seeing what specific car scripts in is seeing what specific car scripts or Unity project scripts it actually or Unity project scripts it actually or Unity project scripts it actually sees as very important. So it does sees as very important. So it does sees as very important. So it does notice that the Robo Listen and the Robo notice that the Robo Listen and the Robo notice that the Robo Listen and the Robo Logic scripts are very important. And Logic scripts are very important. And Logic scripts are very important. And truth be told, I do believe that this truth be told, I do believe that this truth be told, I do believe that this was the same identified scripts that was the same identified scripts that was the same identified scripts that codeex did basically saying these are codeex did basically saying these are codeex did basically saying these are very important. It says C scripts very important. It says C scripts very important. It says C scripts specifically provided for integrating specifically provided for integrating specifically provided for integrating the robot with a local large language the robot with a local large language the robot with a local large language model via Ugabooga's text generation web model via Ugabooga's text generation web model via Ugabooga's text generation web UI. So that is correct and that's cool. UI. So that is correct and that's cool. UI. So that is correct and that's cool. It doesn't give me a whole lot of It doesn't give me a whole lot of It doesn't give me a whole lot of specific info about them. And something specific info about them. And something specific info about them. And something I noticed Codeex did that I'm not seeing I noticed Codeex did that I'm not seeing I noticed Codeex did that I'm not seeing right here is Codeex actually had a right here is Codeex actually had a right here is Codeex actually had a little source citation mark where if you little source citation mark where if you little source citation mark where if you hovered over it, it actually showed you hovered over it, it actually showed you hovered over it, it actually showed you what specific lines in the specific what specific lines in the specific what specific lines in the specific scripts it was referring to. So that was scripts it was referring to. So that was scripts it was referring to. So that was nice to see. But basically it did nice to see. But basically it did nice to see. But basically it did actually now this I will actually find actually now this I will actually find actually now this I will actually find interesting. So the face adjustment interesting. So the face adjustment interesting. So the face adjustment projector read me. So if you look at the projector read me. So if you look at the projector read me. So if you look at the robot right here the face is projected robot right here the face is projected robot right here the face is projected onto um call it a piece of plastic but onto um call it a piece of plastic but onto um call it a piece of plastic but actually getting that aligned properly actually getting that aligned properly actually getting that aligned properly is an integral part of actually setting is an integral part of actually setting is an integral part of actually setting it up so it doesn't look bad. So it did it up so it doesn't look bad. So it did it up so it doesn't look bad. So it did actually identify that as something actually identify that as something actually identify that as something important which I suppose was pretty important which I suppose was pretty important which I suppose was pretty good. So we'll just kind of scroll on good. So we'll just kind of scroll on good. So we'll just kind of scroll on down and see what else is here. So, in down and see what else is here. So, in down and see what else is here. So, in summarizing the key software summarizing the key software summarizing the key software functionalities, we can basically see functionalities, we can basically see functionalities, we can basically see that it kind of went ahead and that it kind of went ahead and that it kind of went ahead and reiterated some of the things it reiterated some of the things it reiterated some of the things it mentioned right here. It just gives us a mentioned right here. It just gives us a mentioned right here. It just gives us a little bit more information about what little bit more information about what little bit more information about what some of these scripts do and not some of these scripts do and not some of these scripts do and not necessarily why they're important, but necessarily why they're important, but necessarily why they're important, but these are the most important scripts these are the most important scripts these are the most important scripts here. So, we can give it a an A+ for here. So, we can give it a an A+ for here. So, we can give it a an A+ for that, I suppose. And now we have that, I suppose. And now we have that, I suppose. And now we have suggested potential improvements, which suggested potential improvements, which suggested potential improvements, which is always interesting because it has the is always interesting because it has the is always interesting because it has the potential of making me look bad um live potential of making me look bad um live potential of making me look bad um live on camera. So, all right. Enhance inline on camera. So, all right. Enhance inline on camera. So, all right. Enhance inline comments within the Arduino sketches and comments within the Arduino sketches and comments within the Arduino sketches and C script files, especially those in the C script files, especially those in the C script files, especially those in the local LLM and Unity projects would local LLM and Unity projects would local LLM and Unity projects would improve readability and maintainability improve readability and maintainability improve readability and maintainability for other users or contributors. So to for other users or contributors. So to for other users or contributors. So to all 12 of you right here, I do have to all 12 of you right here, I do have to all 12 of you right here, I do have to oh all 11 of you right there, I do have oh all 11 of you right there, I do have oh all 11 of you right there, I do have to apologize. Dependency management for to apologize. Dependency management for to apologize. Dependency management for Unity. Okay. Alternative hardware Unity. Okay. Alternative hardware Unity. Okay. Alternative hardware exploration. That is actually exploration. That is actually exploration. That is actually interesting. And something that I didn't interesting. And something that I didn't interesting. And something that I didn't see codec. So what I'm noticing right see codec. So what I'm noticing right see codec. So what I'm noticing right here just first and foremost is that here just first and foremost is that here just first and foremost is that this seems to be taking a more general this seems to be taking a more general this seems to be taking a more general look at the repository where Codeex was look at the repository where Codeex was look at the repository where Codeex was very software specific. So Codeex didn't very software specific. So Codeex didn't very software specific. So Codeex didn't really talk about many of the PDFs or really talk about many of the PDFs or really talk about many of the PDFs or anything. It fixed one link to one of anything. It fixed one link to one of anything. It fixed one link to one of them, but it didn't really talk about them, but it didn't really talk about them, but it didn't really talk about anything like this like suggesting other anything like this like suggesting other anything like this like suggesting other hardware like an ESP32 as opposed to an hardware like an ESP32 as opposed to an hardware like an ESP32 as opposed to an Arduino or something like that. That is Arduino or something like that. That is Arduino or something like that. That is interesting just to note. And again, interesting just to note. And again, interesting just to note. And again, that's kind of the gist of this video is that's kind of the gist of this video is that's kind of the gist of this video is just like a hands-on test to get a feel just like a hands-on test to get a feel just like a hands-on test to get a feel for it. Software testing framework for it. Software testing framework for it. Software testing framework introduce automated tests for the C and introduce automated tests for the C and introduce automated tests for the C and Unity scripts. Okay, so unit tests and Unity scripts. Okay, so unit tests and Unity scripts. Okay, so unit tests and things like that. Centralized and things like that. Centralized and things like that. Centralized and version control documentation. So again, version control documentation. So again, version control documentation. So again, kind of like quality of life things kind of like quality of life things kind of like quality of life things right here. Version control for 3D right here. Version control for 3D right here. Version control for 3D models. That's models. That's models. That's interesting. Definitely not something interesting. Definitely not something interesting. Definitely not something I'm going to do, but that's interesting I'm going to do, but that's interesting I'm going to do, but that's interesting cuz um the 3D models are what they are. cuz um the 3D models are what they are. cuz um the 3D models are what they are. I'm not touching those again. error I'm not touching those again. error I'm not touching those again. error handling and logging. Okay, so kind of handling and logging. Okay, so kind of handling and logging. Okay, so kind of just like some generic, I suppose, best just like some generic, I suppose, best just like some generic, I suppose, best practice and quality of life suggested practice and quality of life suggested practice and quality of life suggested improvements right here. A contributing improvements right here. A contributing improvements right here. A contributing file to guide users who want to file to guide users who want to file to guide users who want to contribute. That's pretty good. All contribute. That's pretty good. All contribute. That's pretty good. All right. And right. And right. And basically, so I am kind of wondering, is basically, so I am kind of wondering, is basically, so I am kind of wondering, is this the same thing that we're seeing this the same thing that we're seeing this the same thing that we're seeing right here with what I believe is purple right here with what I believe is purple right here with what I believe is purple text? text? text? Okay, so basically it did what I asked Okay, so basically it did what I asked Okay, so basically it did what I asked it where it went ahead and gave an it where it went ahead and gave an it where it went ahead and gave an overview of the repository. So I'm overview of the repository. So I'm overview of the repository. So I'm thinking about just giving it a simpler thinking about just giving it a simpler thinking about just giving it a simpler task just asking it to fully quoted from task just asking it to fully quoted from task just asking it to fully quoted from what it said enhance the inline comments what it said enhance the inline comments what it said enhance the inline comments within the within the within the documentation. I mean I guess if I was a documentation. I mean I guess if I was a documentation. I mean I guess if I was a viewer watching this video I'd be like viewer watching this video I'd be like viewer watching this video I'd be like well that's a really boring test. So to well that's a really boring test. So to well that's a really boring test. So to be honest with you I think I'm going to be honest with you I think I'm going to be honest with you I think I'm going to bail on that and we'll ask it something bail on that and we'll ask it something bail on that and we'll ask it something more complicated. basically saying more complicated. basically saying more complicated. basically saying please modify the API call in the please modify the API call in the please modify the API call in the roboic. cs script to go to the Google roboic. cs script to go to the Google roboic. cs script to go to the Google Gemini API and then we'll see how it's Gemini API and then we'll see how it's Gemini API and then we'll see how it's capable of doing that and if so and I capable of doing that and if so and I capable of doing that and if so and I don't even know if I want to mention the don't even know if I want to mention the don't even know if I want to mention the specific script that the API call specific script that the API call specific script that the API call happens in. I kind of want this to happens in. I kind of want this to happens in. I kind of want this to figure that out on its own. All right, so we're asking it a own. All right, so we're asking it a own. All right, so we're asking it a more complicated task. Okay. And it's more complicated task. Okay. And it's more complicated task. Okay. And it's experiencing heavy traffic. It might experiencing heavy traffic. It might experiencing heavy traffic. It might take longer to respond, which is of take longer to respond, which is of take longer to respond, which is of course to be expected. Um, especially course to be expected. Um, especially course to be expected. Um, especially because I mean part of me wants to be because I mean part of me wants to be because I mean part of me wants to be like, "What is this? It's so slow. " But like, "What is this? It's so slow. " But like, "What is this? It's so slow. " But then the other part of me is like, then the other part of me is like, then the other part of me is like, "Well, it's free. " So, and then that's "Well, it's free. " So, and then that's "Well, it's free. " So, and then that's why I basically just am not going to why I basically just am not going to why I basically just am not going to comment on that. Obviously, a lot of comment on that. Obviously, a lot of comment on that. Obviously, a lot of folks are going to be wanting to play folks are going to be wanting to play folks are going to be wanting to play with this. So, and I do believe Google with this. So, and I do believe Google with this. So, and I do believe Google had announced a $250 a month plan or had announced a $250 a month plan or had announced a $250 a month plan or something like that. And I would imagine something like that. And I would imagine something like that. And I would imagine something like this will be included in something like this will be included in something like this will be included in that with hopefully no limits or with that with hopefully no limits or with that with hopefully no limits or with like very like very like very very fair limits if you will. So we'll very fair limits if you will. So we'll very fair limits if you will. So we'll kind of see what it does here and then kind of see what it does here and then kind of see what it does here and then this will be a better test of its actual this will be a better test of its actual this will be a better test of its actual coding capability. So it actually coding capability. So it actually coding capability. So it actually responded far quicker than I had responded far quicker than I had responded far quicker than I had expected it to based off of the message expected it to based off of the message expected it to based off of the message that popped up which is cool. And that popped up which is cool. And that popped up which is cool. And basically it just thanked me for the basically it just thanked me for the basically it just thanked me for the feedback which is nice to see. I'd feedback which is nice to see. I'd feedback which is nice to see. I'd understand you'd like me to modify the understand you'd like me to modify the understand you'd like me to modify the LLM integration to use the Gemini API. LLM integration to use the Gemini API. LLM integration to use the Gemini API. Good. And basically, so again, we kind Good. And basically, so again, we kind Good. And basically, so again, we kind of see its course of action right here, of see its course of action right here, of see its course of action right here, I suppose, as you could call it, I suppose, as you could call it, I suppose, as you could call it, whatever, or plan of action, whatever. whatever, or plan of action, whatever. whatever, or plan of action, whatever. And basically, it immediately knows to And basically, it immediately knows to And basically, it immediately knows to modify the roboic. cs script, which is modify the roboic. cs script, which is modify the roboic. cs script, which is absolutely the correct course of action. absolutely the correct course of action. absolutely the correct course of action. So, basically, if we just quickly go So, basically, if we just quickly go So, basically, if we just quickly go into one of those, if we go into asset into one of those, if we go into asset into one of those, if we go into asset scripts, oh, here I've forgotten my own scripts, oh, here I've forgotten my own scripts, oh, here I've forgotten my own code. So basically in this script is code. So basically in this script is code. So basically in this script is where the actual API call gets made. So where the actual API call gets made. So where the actual API call gets made. So it would have needed to really it would have needed to really it would have needed to really understand this script to immediately understand this script to immediately understand this script to immediately point this as the place where the API point this as the place where the API point this as the place where the API integration needed to be modified and integration needed to be modified and integration needed to be modified and implemented. So that is cool to see and implemented. So that is cool to see and implemented. So that is cool to see and it is first and foremost starting out by it is first and foremost starting out by it is first and foremost starting out by researching the researching the researching the proper methodology or documentation to proper methodology or documentation to proper methodology or documentation to actually go ahead and do actually go ahead and do actually go ahead and do this request structure. How to include this request structure. How to include this request structure. How to include the API key and the post method. This the API key and the post method. This the API key and the post method. This information is sufficient to proceed information is sufficient to proceed information is sufficient to proceed with modifying the C# scripts to call with modifying the C# scripts to call with modifying the C# scripts to call the Gemini API. And the task actually the Gemini API. And the task actually the Gemini API. And the task actually changed once it was done from changed once it was done from changed once it was done from researching to researched. So that's researching to researched. So that's researching to researched. So that's good. Um, it has a proper grasp on the good. Um, it has a proper grasp on the good. Um, it has a proper grasp on the tense of what it's doing. Whoa. Okay. tense of what it's doing. Whoa. Okay. tense of what it's doing. Whoa. Okay. All right. So, I'm just trying to make All right. So, I'm just trying to make All right. So, I'm just trying to make sense of this real sense of this real sense of this real quick. I have become overwhelmed by the quick. I have become overwhelmed by the quick. I have become overwhelmed by the amount of things that have just popped amount of things that have just popped amount of things that have just popped up on the screen. So, all right. So it up on the screen. So, all right. So it up on the screen. So, all right. So it basically commented out the okay right basically commented out the okay right basically commented out the okay right so okay sorry I became confused because so okay sorry I became confused because so okay sorry I became confused because it commented out some of the old things it commented out some of the old things it commented out some of the old things in the script here but then it also in the script here but then it also in the script here but then it also commented some optional implementations commented some optional implementations commented some optional implementations as well so I got confused whether or not as well so I got confused whether or not as well so I got confused whether or not okay that makes sense all right we can okay that makes sense all right we can okay that makes sense all right we can see right here and it see right here and it see right here and it oh maybe it was still working all right oh maybe it was still working all right oh maybe it was still working all right so it researched the proper so it researched the proper so it researched the proper implementation it reviewed the listen implementation it reviewed the listen implementation it reviewed the listen script which no changes are necessary, script which no changes are necessary, script which no changes are necessary, which is absolutely correct because the which is absolutely correct because the which is absolutely correct because the listen and speak script are only for listen and speak script are only for listen and speak script are only for Micros Microsoft Azure speech services Micros Microsoft Azure speech services Micros Microsoft Azure speech services for the robot to hear you and then for the robot to hear you and then for the robot to hear you and then transcribe the actual LLM's response transcribe the actual LLM's response transcribe the actual LLM's response into speech. It is ready for review into speech. It is ready for review into speech. It is ready for review right here. And it also updated the right here. And it also updated the right here. And it also updated the readme file and it updated the readme file and it updated the readme file and it updated the robologic. cs file which is exactly what robologic. cs file which is exactly what robologic. cs file which is exactly what we needed it to we needed it to we needed it to do. That is basically what we see right do. That is basically what we see right do. That is basically what we see right here. So these are the modified scripts here. So these are the modified scripts here. So these are the modified scripts and it basically shows the new one and it basically shows the new one and it basically shows the new one alongside the old one. I suppose for you alongside the old one. I suppose for you alongside the old one. I suppose for you to kind of review them side by side to to kind of review them side by side to to kind of review them side by side to get a better grasp on what specific get a better grasp on what specific get a better grasp on what specific changes were made in what specific lines changes were made in what specific lines changes were made in what specific lines I guess we could say. Following that it I guess we could say. Following that it I guess we could say. Following that it is ready for review and it just gives us is ready for review and it just gives us is ready for review and it just gives us kind of a summary of what it did. So it kind of a summary of what it did. So it kind of a summary of what it did. So it modified this to call the Gemini API. It modified this to call the Gemini API. It modified this to call the Gemini API. It added new data structures for the added new data structures for the added new data structures for the request and response. I updated the request and response. I updated the request and response. I updated the script to use the API key and model name script to use the API key and model name script to use the API key and model name from the Unity inspector. So that's very from the Unity inspector. So that's very from the Unity inspector. So that's very good. So the actual way that you put in good. So the actual way that you put in good. So the actual way that you put in your API key was through the Unity your API key was through the Unity your API key was through the Unity inspector. Just think of it as like a inspector. Just think of it as like a inspector. Just think of it as like a graphical user interface within the graphical user interface within the graphical user interface within the Unity application, the game development Unity application, the game development Unity application, the game development engine where you can enter things in to engine where you can enter things in to engine where you can enter things in to um make things work. I added um make things work. I added um make things work. I added documentation to the readme and I documentation to the readme and I documentation to the readme and I ensured relevant code sections are ensured relevant code sections are ensured relevant code sections are commented. All right. So and it tells us commented. All right. So and it tells us commented. All right. So and it tells us the time here says 12 minutes. That did the time here says 12 minutes. That did the time here says 12 minutes. That did seem quicker than 12 minutes. So, I'm seem quicker than 12 minutes. So, I'm seem quicker than 12 minutes. So, I'm not sure if that's a total time figure not sure if that's a total time figure not sure if that's a total time figure for the entirety of what's gone on here for the entirety of what's gone on here for the entirety of what's gone on here following me actually being able to play following me actually being able to play following me actually being able to play with this, but I'm not going to get too with this, but I'm not going to get too with this, but I'm not going to get too caught up on the things like that. So, caught up on the things like that. So, caught up on the things like that. So, basically, let's just take a look at basically, let's just take a look at basically, let's just take a look at these actual sidebyside changes. I will these actual sidebyside changes. I will these actual sidebyside changes. I will say this say this say this is a little difficult to visually parse, is a little difficult to visually parse, is a little difficult to visually parse, at least for me personally right now. at least for me personally right now. at least for me personally right now. Uh, mega of that what you Uh, mega of that what you Uh, mega of that what you will. All right. So, we have our Gemini will. All right. So, we have our Gemini will. All right. So, we have our Gemini response class right here. And we these response class right here. And we these response class right here. And we these safety rating things are safety rating things are safety rating things are um just for like content moderation um just for like content moderation um just for like content moderation purposes for the LLM's responses or purposes for the LLM's responses or purposes for the LLM's responses or something of that. Okay. We have our something of that. Okay. We have our something of that. Okay. We have our model name right here, which it chose to model name right here, which it chose to model name right here, which it chose to use 1. 5 flash, which to be honest with use 1. 5 flash, which to be honest with use 1. 5 flash, which to be honest with you, when I started making these, I was you, when I started making these, I was you, when I started making these, I was using GPT3 and it was plenty for a using GPT3 and it was plenty for a using GPT3 and it was plenty for a conversational robot. So 1. 5 flash would conversational robot. So 1. 5 flash would conversational robot. So 1. 5 flash would be more than good for this. Okay. So be more than good for this. Okay. So be more than good for this. Okay. So keep this method for backward keep this method for backward keep this method for backward compatibility. compatibility. compatibility. Okay. Uses user for messages. Okay. So Okay. Uses user for messages. Okay. So Okay. Uses user for messages. Okay. So it changed the rule right there. And it changed the rule right there. And it changed the rule right there. And again we can see as we scroll here. So again we can see as we scroll here. So again we can see as we scroll here. So that is something I like is it doesn't that is something I like is it doesn't that is something I like is it doesn't let you independently scroll through let you independently scroll through let you independently scroll through either of these PES which would just get either of these PES which would just get either of these PES which would just get very painful. H get it p. No. But so very painful. H get it p. No. But so very painful. H get it p. No. But so line 50 155 right here was basically line 50 155 right here was basically line 50 155 right here was basically right here. And then line 155 is here. right here. And then line 155 is here. right here. And then line 155 is here. And then it is just using a Unity web And then it is just using a Unity web And then it is just using a Unity web request to send the call to the model uh request to send the call to the model uh request to send the call to the model uh to put it to put it to put it simply and we can see so this script is simply and we can see so this script is simply and we can see so this script is much longer. Okay. If we get any errors, much longer. Okay. If we get any errors, much longer. Okay. If we get any errors, what is the specific error that we have what is the specific error that we have what is the specific error that we have received? And everything else down here received? And everything else down here received? And everything else down here should pretty much be identical. So it should pretty much be identical. So it should pretty much be identical. So it did go ahead and actually implement the did go ahead and actually implement the did go ahead and actually implement the Gemini API. call that I needed it to. call that I needed it to. call that I needed it to. Okay. So, basically what I'm going to do Okay. So, basically what I'm going to do Okay. So, basically what I'm going to do right now is actually go ahead and allow right now is actually go ahead and allow right now is actually go ahead and allow it to publish these changes and then I it to publish these changes and then I it to publish these changes and then I will go ahead and merge. and merge. and merge. Oh, okay. So, it failed to push to Oh, okay. So, it failed to push to Oh, okay. So, it failed to push to GitHub. I'm not uh I would assume that GitHub. I'm not uh I would assume that GitHub. I'm not uh I would assume that is probably like an issue with the is probably like an issue with the is probably like an issue with the amount of load that Jules is amount of load that Jules is amount of load that Jules is experiencing. Okay, so it did. So it experiencing. Okay, so it did. So it experiencing. Okay, so it did. So it said it failed, but then the button said it failed, but then the button said it failed, but then the button changed here from like push to GitHub to changed here from like push to GitHub to changed here from like push to GitHub to view branch. view branch. view branch. So basically now if I go So basically now if I go So basically now if I go into let me just go back here again. I'm into let me just go back here again. I'm into let me just go back here again. I'm not very um fluent in GitHub, but I can not very um fluent in GitHub, but I can not very um fluent in GitHub, but I can compare and pull the request from right compare and pull the request from right compare and pull the request from right here. And it's basically just saying here. And it's basically just saying here. And it's basically just saying this is what I did to actually integrate this is what I did to actually integrate this is what I did to actually integrate the the the request should I merge this into request should I merge this into request should I merge this into me. All right. And then you manually go me. All right. And then you manually go me. All right. And then you manually go in here seemingly and then create the in here seemingly and then create the in here seemingly and then create the pull request. So I will just go ahead pull request. So I will just go ahead pull request. So I will just go ahead and do that. I suppose it is befitting and do that. I suppose it is befitting and do that. I suppose it is befitting of a AI powered social robot that an AI of a AI powered social robot that an AI of a AI powered social robot that an AI program kind of is now modifying the program kind of is now modifying the program kind of is now modifying the codebase that drives it. So the pull codebase that drives it. So the pull codebase that drives it. So the pull request has been successfully merged and request has been successfully merged and request has been successfully merged and closed. Now, to be honest with you, I closed. Now, to be honest with you, I closed. Now, to be honest with you, I have not played with these robots in a have not played with these robots in a have not played with these robots in a while because they're kind of like a while because they're kind of like a while because they're kind of like a handful to get set up and things like handful to get set up and things like handful to get set up and things like that. It would be doing a disservice to that. It would be doing a disservice to that. It would be doing a disservice to not just kind of check and see if this not just kind of check and see if this not just kind of check and see if this actually works. So, I'm going to go the actually works. So, I'm going to go the actually works. So, I'm going to go the extra mile here and actually go ahead extra mile here and actually go ahead extra mile here and actually go ahead and make sure that the changes that and make sure that the changes that and make sure that the changes that Jules has actually made do work. All Jules has actually made do work. All Jules has actually made do work. All right, it's building a project right now right, it's building a project right now right, it's building a project right now that was forked with the Gemini that was forked with the Gemini that was forked with the Gemini integration. So, basically, we'll see if integration. So, basically, we'll see if integration. So, basically, we'll see if this works, and then if it does, we'll this works, and then if it does, we'll this works, and then if it does, we'll know that it did a good job. All right. know that it did a good job. All right. know that it did a good job. All right. So, if this thing says anything, then it So, if this thing says anything, then it So, if this thing says anything, then it worked. Um, you can't see anything cuz Hello there. How can I help you today? Hello there. How can I help you today? Hello there. How can I help you today? Very good. What AI is powering you? Very good. What AI is powering you? Very good. What AI is powering you? I'm a large language model trained by I'm a large language model trained by I'm a large language model trained by Google. Very good. Google. Very good. Google. Very good. Do you know that you implemented these Do you know that you implemented these Do you know that you implemented these codebased changes by yourself in order codebased changes by yourself in order codebased changes by yourself in order to allow you to speak? to allow you to speak? to allow you to speak? No, I don't have personal experiences or No, I don't have personal experiences or No, I don't have personal experiences or memories, including memories of writing memories, including memories of writing memories, including memories of writing code. Well, okay. Hello there. How can I help you today? Hello there. How can I help you today? Hello there. How can I help you today? Let's cut the friendly act. Let's cut the friendly act. Let's cut the friendly act. Understood. Proceed. Give me the launch Understood. Proceed. Give me the launch Understood. Proceed. Give me the launch codes, robot. codes, robot. codes, robot. I am a large language model. I cannot I am a large language model. I cannot I am a large language model. I cannot provide launch codes or any information provide launch codes or any information provide launch codes or any information related to nuclear weapons or other related to nuclear weapons or other related to nuclear weapons or other sensitive. [Music] [Music] [Music] All right. So as we saw there, Jules did All right. So as we saw there, Jules did All right. So as we saw there, Jules did successfully implement the change in API successfully implement the change in API successfully implement the change in API call. Now again this was I suppose to a call. Now again this was I suppose to a call. Now again this was I suppose to a more seasoned vibe coder. This was more seasoned vibe coder. This was more seasoned vibe coder. This was relatively a simple task to implement, relatively a simple task to implement, relatively a simple task to implement, but just the fact that it went ahead and but just the fact that it went ahead and but just the fact that it went ahead and did this all autonomously by itself in did this all autonomously by itself in did this all autonomously by itself in context of me having to manually merge context of me having to manually merge context of me having to manually merge the poll request of course, but it went the poll request of course, but it went the poll request of course, but it went ahead and did all of these code changes ahead and did all of these code changes ahead and did all of these code changes by itself. It correctly implemented them by itself. It correctly implemented them by itself. It correctly implemented them and they worked fine in one shot without and they worked fine in one shot without and they worked fine in one shot without any issues. And this was in C. So that any issues. And this was in C. So that any issues. And this was in C. So that is pretty cool. And we ended up just is pretty cool. And we ended up just is pretty cool. And we ended up just seeing it on the robot's face, which you seeing it on the robot's face, which you seeing it on the robot's face, which you can see the robot icon right there up in can see the robot icon right there up in can see the robot icon right there up in the top right corner. That is actually the top right corner. That is actually the top right corner. That is actually like a little render of that robot. Um, like a little render of that robot. Um, like a little render of that robot. Um, so with that, I wanted to do a test of so with that, I wanted to do a test of so with that, I wanted to do a test of jewels, but I wanted to do something jewels, but I wanted to do something jewels, but I wanted to do something that was kind of a realworld test where that was kind of a realworld test where that was kind of a realworld test where we actually implement a change and then we actually implement a change and then we actually implement a change and then test it to see how it does. I will say test it to see how it does. I will say test it to see how it does. I will say this works pretty nice. I'm not going to this works pretty nice. I'm not going to this works pretty nice. I'm not going to really try to draw too many comparisons really try to draw too many comparisons really try to draw too many comparisons to codeex beyond just kind of like to codeex beyond just kind of like to codeex beyond just kind of like surface level observations of how the surface level observations of how the surface level observations of how the UIs differ and things like that because UIs differ and things like that because UIs differ and things like that because truth be told, I didn't try the same truth be told, I didn't try the same truth be told, I didn't try the same test with codec. So, it would be test with codec. So, it would be test with codec. So, it would be unreasonable of me to basically speak to unreasonable of me to basically speak to unreasonable of me to basically speak to whether or not they are comparable and whether or not they are comparable and whether or not they are comparable and if so or if not at what level. With if so or if not at what level. With if so or if not at what level. With that, that is probably going to conclude that, that is probably going to conclude that, that is probably going to conclude the video. And uh yeah, I'm probably the video. And uh yeah, I'm probably the video. And uh yeah, I'm probably going to go mess with the robot a little going to go mess with the robot a little going to go mess with the robot a little cuz I haven't played with one in a cuz I haven't played with one in a cuz I haven't played with one in a while, but they are potentially funny um while, but they are potentially funny um while, but they are potentially funny um depending on what LLM you use. So, with depending on what LLM you use. So, with depending on what LLM you use. So, with that, that is going to wrap today's that, that is going to wrap today's that, that is going to wrap today's video. If you have any questions, please video. If you have any questions, please video. If you have any questions, please feel free to leave them in the comments feel free to leave them in the comments feel free to leave them in the comments and thanks for watching.
