Timestamp: 2025-04-23T19:53:45.750899
Title: Signs You Are Becoming a Profitable Trader
URL: https://youtube.com/watch?v=jK1ABmTHZF4&si=18eNe96-dXR1iwmb
Status: success
Duration: 26:03

Description:
好的，这是根据您提供的文本生成的摘要，包含大纲、核心观点、框架以及 Mermaid 流程图。

**摘要：**

**一、核心观点：**

在交易市场中，成功的关键不在于拥有完美的系统或指标，而在于制定有效的业务计划、控制心理因素并运用合理的风险管理策略。

**二、大纲：**

1.  **盈利的迹象：**
    *   意识到需要一个交易业务计划。
    *   理解市场是50/50的概率游戏，接受亏损是常态。
    *   培养耐心，等待合适的交易机会，避免追逐市场。
    *   克服FOMO（害怕错过）和恐惧心理。
    *   认识到策略（业务计划、心理、风险管理）比系统本身更重要。

2.  **交易策略（三步业务计划）：**
    *   **资金准备：**
        *   如果资金不足，考虑使用融资交易账户。
    *   **风险管理：**
        *   风险比例：每笔交易风险不超过总资金的1%（例如，25,000美元账户，每笔交易风险250美元）。
    *   **执行策略：**
        *   设置止损点（无效点），确保风险可控。
        *   寻求至少1:1的风险回报比，尽量争取更高比例。
        *   当交易盈利时，将止损点移至成本价，确保不亏损。
        *   使用追踪止损，尽可能扩大盈利。

3.  **重要提示：**
    *   交易具有风险，不适合厌恶风险的人。
    *   胜率不是关键，盈利的交易额度才是关键。
    *   关注长期盈利，而不是单次交易的得失。

**三、总体框架：**

该内容的核心是关于交易成功的要素。它强调了交易不仅仅是技术分析，更是一个需要商业头脑和心理控制的活动。作者提供了一个简单的三步策略，帮助交易者制定计划、管理风险并最终实现盈利。

**四、Mermaid概念图：**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph LR
    subgraph Business_Plan [交易业务计划]
        direction TB
        A[资金充足] --> B(风险管理: 1%风险);
        A --> C(交易心理: 克服恐惧 & FOMO);
        B --> D{风险回报比: 至少1:1};
        D --> E[获利时移动止损];
        E --> F(最大化利润);
    end

    subgraph Trading_Reality [交易现实]
        G[50/50 概率游戏] --> H{接受亏损};
        H --> I[耐心等待机会];
        I --> J(避免追逐市场);
    end

    subgraph Strategy_vs_System [策略 vs 系统]
        K[系统提供高概率信号] --> L{不是盈利的根本原因};
        L --> M(策略 <font color="red">才是关键</font>);
        M --> N[策略: 业务计划 + 心理 + 风险管理];
    end

    O[核心: 制定计划，管理风险，控制心理]
    O--策略-->Business_Plan
    O--现实-->Trading_Reality
    O--胜过系统-->Strategy_vs_System

    style A fill:#ccffcc,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style B fill:#ffcccc,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style C fill:#ccffcc,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style D fill:#ccffcc,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style E fill:#ccffcc,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style F fill:#ccffcc,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style G fill:#ccffcc,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style H fill:#ccffcc,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style I fill:#ccffcc,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style J fill:#ccffcc,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style K fill:#ccffcc,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style L fill:#ccffcc,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style M fill:#ccffcc,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style N fill:#ccffcc,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px

</Mermaid_Diagram>


Content:
WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en There will be There will be There will be signs. Yes, there will be signs. You'll signs. Yes, there will be signs. You'll signs. Yes, there will be signs. You'll know you're becoming profitable. There's know you're becoming profitable. There's know you're becoming profitable. There's a couple of obvious signs. Clearly, a couple of obvious signs. Clearly, a couple of obvious signs. Clearly, there's a couple of obvious signs that there's a couple of obvious signs that there's a couple of obvious signs that will tell you you're becoming will tell you you're becoming will tell you you're becoming profitable. 30 years ago, when I started profitable. 30 years ago, when I started profitable. 30 years ago, when I started trading, no one came to me and let me trading, no one came to me and let me trading, no one came to me and let me know that I was about to become know that I was about to become know that I was about to become profitable. Nobody told me when it was profitable. Nobody told me when it was profitable. Nobody told me when it was going to happen or how difficult it was going to happen or how difficult it was going to happen or how difficult it was going to be. to become profitable. If going to be. to become profitable. If going to be. to become profitable. If you're about to give up and you're just you're about to give up and you're just you're about to give up and you're just not sure if you're ever going to become not sure if you're ever going to become not sure if you're ever going to become profitable or not, I'm going to go today profitable or not, I'm going to go today profitable or not, I'm going to go today and I'm going to give you five, yes, and I'm going to give you five, yes, and I'm going to give you five, yes, five signs that you could be about to be five signs that you could be about to be five signs that you could be about to be profitable or you've already become profitable or you've already become profitable or you've already become profitable in the markets. And the last profitable in the markets. And the last profitable in the markets. And the last one is going to shock you. Hey, it's one is going to shock you. Hey, it's one is going to shock you. Hey, it's Coffee with Rob. So, for those of you Coffee with Rob. So, for those of you Coffee with Rob. So, for those of you who don't know me, I'm Rob. For those of who don't know me, I'm Rob. For those of who don't know me, I'm Rob. For those of you who do know me, I'm still Rob. And you who do know me, I'm still Rob. And you who do know me, I'm still Rob. And we're going to have a sip of coffee we're going to have a sip of coffee we're going to have a sip of coffee since it is coffee with Rob. And then since it is coffee with Rob. And then since it is coffee with Rob. And then we're going to get to talking about the we're going to get to talking about the we're going to get to talking about the signs that you're going to be profitable signs that you're going to be profitable signs that you're going to be profitable in the in the in the market. At the end of the video, I'm market. At the end of the video, I'm market. At the end of the video, I'm actually going to give you a strategy, a actually going to give you a strategy, a actually going to give you a strategy, a strategy that will actually make you strategy that will actually make you strategy that will actually make you profitable in the markets. the strategy profitable in the markets. the strategy profitable in the markets. the strategy that'll take you to the next step in that'll take you to the next step in that'll take you to the next step in your trading. Because it's not the your trading. Because it's not the your trading. Because it's not the system that makes you the money. It's system that makes you the money. It's system that makes you the money. It's not the squiggly lines that make you the not the squiggly lines that make you the not the squiggly lines that make you the money. It's the business plan and the money. It's the business plan and the money. It's the business plan and the strategy that's going to make you strategy that's going to make you strategy that's going to make you profitable that's going to make you the profitable that's going to make you the profitable that's going to make you the money in the markets. And as I say at money in the markets. And as I say at money in the markets. And as I say at the end of this video, I'm going to give the end of this video, I'm going to give the end of this video, I'm going to give you that strategy. And you can use it, you that strategy. And you can use it, you that strategy. And you can use it, don't use it, totally up to you. It's a don't use it, totally up to you. It's a don't use it, totally up to you. It's a two or three-step business plan. It's so two or three-step business plan. It's so two or three-step business plan. It's so easy to use and so simple because my easy to use and so simple because my easy to use and so simple because my whole philosophy on trading is keep it whole philosophy on trading is keep it whole philosophy on trading is keep it simple. Yes, keep it simple, stupid. simple. Yes, keep it simple, stupid. simple. Yes, keep it simple, stupid. It's not difficult. Don't make it It's not difficult. Don't make it It's not difficult. Don't make it complicated. Don't get all these over complicated. Don't get all these over complicated. Don't get all these over complicated systems and start looking complicated systems and start looking complicated systems and start looking for ways to to like move the moon for ways to to like move the moon for ways to to like move the moon slightly to the left 5° and turn it into slightly to the left 5° and turn it into slightly to the left 5° and turn it into green cheese or whatever the case. Just green cheese or whatever the case. Just green cheese or whatever the case. Just keep it simple and trade the easy way. keep it simple and trade the easy way. keep it simple and trade the easy way. And if you want to know what the system And if you want to know what the system And if you want to know what the system is that we use for high probability is that we use for high probability is that we use for high probability trading, just pop over and go and have a trading, just pop over and go and have a trading, just pop over and go and have a look at our other videos. The strategies look at our other videos. The strategies look at our other videos. The strategies are all there. If you want to know what are all there. If you want to know what are all there. If you want to know what I'm trading every day, what trades I'm I'm trading every day, what trades I'm I'm trading every day, what trades I'm taking and what what what's best in the taking and what what what's best in the taking and what what what's best in the market and what the trade of the day is, market and what the trade of the day is, market and what the trade of the day is, do yourself a favor and join the do yourself a favor and join the do yourself a favor and join the membership. Join the membership every membership. Join the membership every membership. Join the membership every single day. I put a video out. Trade of single day. I put a video out. Trade of single day. I put a video out. Trade of the day, what I'm doing, I look over the the day, what I'm doing, I look over the the day, what I'm doing, I look over the markets. And the reason it's in the markets. And the reason it's in the markets. And the reason it's in the membership is because it is a little bit membership is because it is a little bit membership is because it is a little bit extra, guys. Everything isn't for free extra, guys. Everything isn't for free extra, guys. Everything isn't for free in the world. Let's get to it. Let's in the world. Let's get to it. Let's in the world. Let's get to it. Let's talk about those five things that'll talk about those five things that'll talk about those five things that'll show that you're profitable in the show that you're profitable in the show that you're profitable in the market. So, these are just a few things market. So, these are just a few things market. So, these are just a few things that will help you that will show that that will help you that will show that that will help you that will show that you're going on the right track. I think you're going on the right track. I think you're going on the right track. I think the last one's really going to shock the last one's really going to shock the last one's really going to shock you. The most important one and the you. The most important one and the you. The most important one and the first one is the sudden realization that first one is the sudden realization that first one is the sudden realization that you need a business plan in the market. you need a business plan in the market. you need a business plan in the market. That you need a business plan to trade That you need a business plan to trade That you need a business plan to trade with. You can't just go out there and with. You can't just go out there and with. You can't just go out there and just start trading. Yes. So many people just start trading. Yes. So many people just start trading. Yes. So many people get involved in trading. They do a get involved in trading. They do a get involved in trading. They do a course and they they get involved in course and they they get involved in course and they they get involved in this course and they're straight into it this course and they're straight into it this course and they're straight into it and we're going to be traders now and and we're going to be traders now and and we're going to be traders now and off they go on the course and they pay. off they go on the course and they pay. off they go on the course and they pay. How much do you pay for a course? I How much do you pay for a course? I How much do you pay for a course? I don't know. You tell me. How much do you don't know. You tell me. How much do you don't know. You tell me. How much do you pay for a course? I'm sure it's pay for a course? I'm sure it's pay for a course? I'm sure it's expensive. It's a few thousand, isn't expensive. It's a few thousand, isn't expensive. It's a few thousand, isn't it? And you go on this course and you do it? And you go on this course and you do it? And you go on this course and you do really well on the course and you pass really well on the course and you pass really well on the course and you pass the course and you think, I know the course and you think, I know the course and you think, I know everything about the stock market now. everything about the stock market now. everything about the stock market now. And you go back and you think, I'm going And you go back and you think, I'm going And you go back and you think, I'm going to take trades now because I know all to take trades now because I know all to take trades now because I know all the abbreviations, all the the abbreviations, all the the abbreviations, all the terminologies. I can teach Rob about terminologies. I can teach Rob about terminologies. I can teach Rob about trading now. He knows nothing. He trading now. He knows nothing. He trading now. He knows nothing. He doesn't know these fancy words and doesn't know these fancy words and doesn't know these fancy words and terminologies that I do about the stock terminologies that I do about the stock terminologies that I do about the stock market. And I can read candles and I can market. And I can read candles and I can market. And I can read candles and I can read charts and I can do all these funny read charts and I can do all these funny read charts and I can do all these funny things. I learned all that in a week. things. I learned all that in a week. things. I learned all that in a week. Isn't that amazing? A week. Maybe it was Isn't that amazing? A week. Maybe it was Isn't that amazing? A week. Maybe it was less than a week. I don't know. And I've less than a week. I don't know. And I've less than a week. I don't know. And I've got all these videos. I've got all this got all these videos. I've got all this got all these videos. I've got all this information. I've got this whole book information. I've got this whole book information. I've got this whole book and this whole course which tells me how and this whole course which tells me how and this whole course which tells me how to trade. So I now know how to trade. to trade. So I now know how to trade. to trade. So I now know how to trade. And you get involved in trading and you And you get involved in trading and you And you get involved in trading and you start losing. You wonder why are you start losing. You wonder why are you start losing. You wonder why are you losing? What's going wrong? What's losing? What's going wrong? What's losing? What's going wrong? What's happened that's causing me to lose? happened that's causing me to lose? happened that's causing me to lose? Well, the first thing that's happened is Well, the first thing that's happened is Well, the first thing that's happened is they taught you that the squiggly lines they taught you that the squiggly lines they taught you that the squiggly lines are going to make you money. And the are going to make you money. And the are going to make you money. And the second thing that's happened is they've second thing that's happened is they've second thing that's happened is they've taught you that a win rate is going to taught you that a win rate is going to taught you that a win rate is going to make you money and that all you have to make you money and that all you have to make you money and that all you have to do is have an edge to make money in the do is have an edge to make money in the do is have an edge to make money in the market. They haven't taught you that market. They haven't taught you that market. They haven't taught you that psychology plays the major part and they psychology plays the major part and they psychology plays the major part and they haven't taught you that you need a haven't taught you that you need a haven't taught you that you need a business plan to make money in the business plan to make money in the business plan to make money in the market. So I ask you this question. If market. So I ask you this question. If market. So I ask you this question. If you're planning to open a retail store you're planning to open a retail store you're planning to open a retail store on the high street or you're planning to on the high street or you're planning to on the high street or you're planning to open a factory in the industrial area open a factory in the industrial area open a factory in the industrial area and you're going to open this factory and you're going to open this factory and you're going to open this factory and you're just going to open it and and you're just going to open it and and you're just going to open it and just what are we going to sell? It just what are we going to sell? It just what are we going to sell? It doesn't matter. We're just going to open doesn't matter. We're just going to open doesn't matter. We're just going to open it. That's fine. Don't worry about it. it. That's fine. Don't worry about it. it. That's fine. Don't worry about it. Just open it. No plan. Would you do Just open it. No plan. Would you do Just open it. No plan. Would you do that? I don't think so. I think you'd that? I don't think so. I think you'd that? I don't think so. I think you'd probably think, "How much money do I probably think, "How much money do I probably think, "How much money do I need? What are the deposits on the shop need? What are the deposits on the shop need? What are the deposits on the shop that I need or the factory that I need? that I need or the factory that I need? that I need or the factory that I need? Do I need to buy the premises, lease the Do I need to buy the premises, lease the Do I need to buy the premises, lease the premises? Do I need staff? How much premises? Do I need staff? How much premises? Do I need staff? How much stock am I going to need? Do I need stock am I going to need? Do I need stock am I going to need? Do I need shelving? Do I need the floors done? Do shelving? Do I need the floors done? Do shelving? Do I need the floors done? Do I need to fit the shop out? Do I need I need to fit the shop out? Do I need I need to fit the shop out? Do I need conveyor belts in my factory? " All these conveyor belts in my factory? " All these conveyor belts in my factory? " All these things before you get started. Number things before you get started. Number things before you get started. Number one thing in your business plan, you one thing in your business plan, you one thing in your business plan, you need capital. You're going to need a need capital. You're going to need a need capital. You're going to need a load of capital to get started. So, load of capital to get started. So, load of capital to get started. So, funny thing is, when you want to start a funny thing is, when you want to start a funny thing is, when you want to start a real business, you have a business plan. real business, you have a business plan. real business, you have a business plan. But when you want to start trading, But when you want to start trading, But when you want to start trading, which is a business, you don't need a which is a business, you don't need a which is a business, you don't need a business plan at all. You just start business plan at all. You just start business plan at all. You just start trading with the hopes that you're going trading with the hopes that you're going trading with the hopes that you're going to make some kind of a profit and then to make some kind of a profit and then to make some kind of a profit and then you don't. And you wonder why. you don't. And you wonder why. you don't. And you wonder why. Well, point one, you need a business Well, point one, you need a business Well, point one, you need a business plan. That's the only way that you can plan. That's the only way that you can plan. That's the only way that you can possibly find your way to making a possibly find your way to making a possibly find your way to making a profit. But in the strategy at the end profit. But in the strategy at the end profit. But in the strategy at the end of the video, I'll give you the business of the video, I'll give you the business of the video, I'll give you the business plan as well, cuz it's all part of the plan as well, cuz it's all part of the plan as well, cuz it's all part of the strategy. So, you'll be okay. If you strategy. So, you'll be okay. If you strategy. So, you'll be okay. If you keep watching, you'll figure this one keep watching, you'll figure this one keep watching, you'll figure this one out. But what's point two when you out. But what's point two when you out. But what's point two when you realize that you're actually starting to realize that you're actually starting to realize that you're actually starting to become profitable? something that's become profitable? something that's become profitable? something that's suddenly in your arsenal that's said to suddenly in your arsenal that's said to suddenly in your arsenal that's said to me, "Ah, you know what? I'm doing that, me, "Ah, you know what? I'm doing that, me, "Ah, you know what? I'm doing that, so I'm probably on the right track. " so I'm probably on the right track. " so I'm probably on the right track. " Point two is this. You understand that Point two is this. You understand that Point two is this. You understand that the market is 50/50, that in all high the market is 50/50, that in all high the market is 50/50, that in all high probability, you're going to lose half, probability, you're going to lose half, probability, you're going to lose half, if not more than half of your trades. if not more than half of your trades. if not more than half of your trades. you suddenly you suddenly you suddenly realize that you might lose and you're realize that you might lose and you're realize that you might lose and you're going to have to take some losing trades going to have to take some losing trades going to have to take some losing trades and you're going to have to factor those and you're going to have to factor those and you're going to have to factor those losing trades into your business plan so losing trades into your business plan so losing trades into your business plan so that you can make a profit. So many that you can make a profit. So many that you can make a profit. So many people think they're never going to lose people think they're never going to lose people think they're never going to lose a trade. So many people get involved in a trade. So many people get involved in a trade. So many people get involved in trading thinking they're just going to trading thinking they're just going to trading thinking they're just going to win every trade. Now, I don't know if win every trade. Now, I don't know if win every trade. Now, I don't know if it's because you watched that other it's because you watched that other it's because you watched that other YouTuber that told you you're going to YouTuber that told you you're going to YouTuber that told you you're going to win every trade or that a Lamborghini is win every trade or that a Lamborghini is win every trade or that a Lamborghini is going to fall out the sky. I don't know going to fall out the sky. I don't know going to fall out the sky. I don't know if it's that. I I really don't. Or it if it's that. I I really don't. Or it if it's that. I I really don't. Or it could be that you went on a course and could be that you went on a course and could be that you went on a course and they told you that because you're buying they told you that because you're buying they told you that because you're buying this insane high probability system that this insane high probability system that this insane high probability system that it's going to win you every single trade it's going to win you every single trade it's going to win you every single trade and you just can't lose. Some of them and you just can't lose. Some of them and you just can't lose. Some of them might be a little bit more realistic and might be a little bit more realistic and might be a little bit more realistic and tell you you're going to win 70% of your tell you you're going to win 70% of your tell you you're going to win 70% of your trades or 80% of your trades, but even trades or 80% of your trades, but even trades or 80% of your trades, but even that's a blatant lie. You're going to that's a blatant lie. You're going to that's a blatant lie. You're going to win less than half your trades. This is win less than half your trades. This is win less than half your trades. This is a fact. And the sooner you understand a fact. And the sooner you understand a fact. And the sooner you understand that you're going to win less than half that you're going to win less than half that you're going to win less than half your trades, the sooner your brain will your trades, the sooner your brain will your trades, the sooner your brain will start to compute and say, "But if I'm start to compute and say, "But if I'm start to compute and say, "But if I'm going to win half or less than half of going to win half or less than half of going to win half or less than half of my my my trades, well, then I'm going to lose. trades, well, then I'm going to lose. trades, well, then I'm going to lose. I'm not going to make money because I I'm not going to make money because I I'm not going to make money because I don't have the edge. The market's got don't have the edge. The market's got don't have the edge. The market's got the edge. Because if I lose more than I the edge. Because if I lose more than I the edge. Because if I lose more than I win, then clearly I'm losing. Not if you win, then clearly I'm losing. Not if you win, then clearly I'm losing. Not if you have the business plan. Not if you have the business plan. Not if you have the business plan. Not if you follow my strategy. While we're here, follow my strategy. While we're here, follow my strategy. While we're here, guys, remember trading is risky. And if guys, remember trading is risky. And if guys, remember trading is risky. And if you don't like risk and you don't like you don't like risk and you don't like you don't like risk and you don't like losing money, you most likely probably losing money, you most likely probably losing money, you most likely probably shouldn't be trading. And by the way, if shouldn't be trading. And by the way, if shouldn't be trading. And by the way, if you want a free Forex book, drop down to you want a free Forex book, drop down to you want a free Forex book, drop down to the description, grab a free Forex book. the description, grab a free Forex book. the description, grab a free Forex book. And if you don't have the funding to And if you don't have the funding to And if you don't have the funding to trade, grab your funded trader account trade, grab your funded trader account trade, grab your funded trader account link there as well and start a challenge link there as well and start a challenge link there as well and start a challenge or get an instant funding. It's all or get an instant funding. It's all or get an instant funding. It's all there for you. What's point three? there for you. What's point three? there for you. What's point three? What's the third thing that you're going What's the third thing that you're going What's the third thing that you're going to realize, oh, I've got this in my to realize, oh, I've got this in my to realize, oh, I've got this in my arsenal, or no, you know what? I might arsenal, or no, you know what? I might arsenal, or no, you know what? I might need this. Well, the third thing is you need this. Well, the third thing is you need this. Well, the third thing is you figure out suddenly figure out the aha figure out suddenly figure out the aha figure out suddenly figure out the aha moment whacks you on the back of the moment whacks you on the back of the moment whacks you on the back of the head. You need patience. You need to be head. You need patience. You need to be head. You need patience. You need to be able to sit on your hands and you need able to sit on your hands and you need able to sit on your hands and you need patience. You need to wait for those patience. You need to wait for those patience. You need to wait for those trades to come to you. How many traders trades to come to you. How many traders trades to come to you. How many traders have I seen chasing the market, chasing have I seen chasing the market, chasing have I seen chasing the market, chasing the trades on a regular basis, just the trades on a regular basis, just the trades on a regular basis, just chasing chase, trying to take it. If if chasing chase, trying to take it. If if chasing chase, trying to take it. If if there's no trade today, I need to take a there's no trade today, I need to take a there's no trade today, I need to take a trade. I haven't had a trade yet today. trade. I haven't had a trade yet today. trade. I haven't had a trade yet today. Why don't you wait till tomorrow? Why don't you wait till tomorrow? Why don't you wait till tomorrow? There'll be one tomorrow. There might be There'll be one tomorrow. There might be There'll be one tomorrow. There might be five tomorrow, but no, you need to take five tomorrow, but no, you need to take five tomorrow, but no, you need to take one. How many people have asked me, how one. How many people have asked me, how one. How many people have asked me, how many trades do you take? Or how long do many trades do you take? Or how long do many trades do you take? Or how long do you hold the trade? Or how much money do you hold the trade? Or how much money do you hold the trade? Or how much money do you make every day? Or how many trades you make every day? Or how many trades you make every day? Or how many trades should I take in a day? Those questions, should I take in a day? Those questions, should I take in a day? Those questions, they're like, how long is a string? You they're like, how long is a string? You they're like, how long is a string? You take the trades that you need to take. take the trades that you need to take. take the trades that you need to take. If the trade is showing you that it If the trade is showing you that it If the trade is showing you that it needs to be taken, if the opportunity is needs to be taken, if the opportunity is needs to be taken, if the opportunity is there, then you take the trade. And at there, then you take the trade. And at there, then you take the trade. And at no other time do you take the trade? You no other time do you take the trade? You no other time do you take the trade? You don't force the trade. How long should don't force the trade. How long should don't force the trade. How long should you keep the trade? As long as is you keep the trade? As long as is you keep the trade? As long as is necessary to keep the trade, man. How necessary to keep the trade, man. How necessary to keep the trade, man. How long do you want to keep it? I can only long do you want to keep it? I can only long do you want to keep it? I can only keep it for an hour because I'm only keep it for an hour because I'm only keep it for an hour because I'm only trading on the hourly. I'm only going to trading on the hourly. I'm only going to trading on the hourly. I'm only going to sit here for two hours, so I better get sit here for two hours, so I better get sit here for two hours, so I better get up and go. So, I'll just close this up and go. So, I'll just close this up and go. So, I'll just close this trade. No, that's not how it works. trade. No, that's not how it works. trade. No, that's not how it works. Yeah, keep the trade for as long as you Yeah, keep the trade for as long as you Yeah, keep the trade for as long as you need to. If you go and buy a classic car need to. If you go and buy a classic car need to. If you go and buy a classic car to make a profit on it or you invest in to make a profit on it or you invest in to make a profit on it or you invest in property to make a profit on it, do you property to make a profit on it, do you property to make a profit on it, do you decide that you have to sell it at a decide that you have to sell it at a decide that you have to sell it at a certain time to make that profit or do certain time to make that profit or do certain time to make that profit or do you wait for it to become more valuable you wait for it to become more valuable you wait for it to become more valuable and then sell it and make profit? Well, and then sell it and make profit? Well, and then sell it and make profit? Well, that's the same with trading. If you that's the same with trading. If you that's the same with trading. If you take something on as an investment, as a take something on as an investment, as a take something on as an investment, as a trade, the idea is that you want to make trade, the idea is that you want to make trade, the idea is that you want to make a profit of it at at some time in the a profit of it at at some time in the a profit of it at at some time in the future. You want to make more money on future. You want to make more money on future. You want to make more money on it. You don't want to take a loss on it. it. You don't want to take a loss on it. it. You don't want to take a loss on it. So, you don't want to put a time limit So, you don't want to put a time limit So, you don't want to put a time limit on when that profit is. You just want to on when that profit is. You just want to on when that profit is. You just want to make the profit on it. The sooner the make the profit on it. The sooner the make the profit on it. The sooner the better, but in some cases, it can take better, but in some cases, it can take better, but in some cases, it can take 30 years. In some cases, it can take 3 30 years. In some cases, it can take 3 30 years. In some cases, it can take 3 minutes. There is no time limit on minutes. There is no time limit on minutes. There is no time limit on making a profit and there is no time making a profit and there is no time making a profit and there is no time limit time limit on holding an limit time limit on holding an limit time limit on holding an investment or holding something that you investment or holding something that you investment or holding something that you want to make profit with. There is no want to make profit with. There is no want to make profit with. There is no rule or hard and fast rule as to how rule or hard and fast rule as to how rule or hard and fast rule as to how many trades you must take in a day, how many trades you must take in a day, how many trades you must take in a day, how many trades you must take in a week. many trades you must take in a week. many trades you must take in a week. Come on guys, it's not that hard. Just Come on guys, it's not that hard. Just Come on guys, it's not that hard. Just think logically. Just keep what you need think logically. Just keep what you need think logically. Just keep what you need to keep. It's not that difficult. Cheers. So, let's get to point number Cheers. So, let's get to point number Cheers. So, let's get to point number four. We're getting really close to four. We're getting really close to four. We're getting really close to point number five, aren't we? But well, point number five, aren't we? But well, point number five, aren't we? But well, we'll get there and we'll talk about it we'll get there and we'll talk about it we'll get there and we'll talk about it and then I'm going to give you my and then I'm going to give you my and then I'm going to give you my strategy as well. The strategy that'll strategy as well. The strategy that'll strategy as well. The strategy that'll make you the money. That's insane by make you the money. That's insane by make you the money. That's insane by itself. But let's go and have a look at itself. But let's go and have a look at itself. But let's go and have a look at point number four. And that is you've point number four. And that is you've point number four. And that is you've gotten rid of the FOMO and fear. If gotten rid of the FOMO and fear. If gotten rid of the FOMO and fear. If you've gotten rid of the FOMO and fear, you've gotten rid of the FOMO and fear, you've gotten rid of the FOMO and fear, and I hate abbreviations as well, FOMO and I hate abbreviations as well, FOMO and I hate abbreviations as well, FOMO stands for fear of missing out. Fear stands for fear of missing out. Fear stands for fear of missing out. Fear stands for stands for stands for fear. But the fear of missing out is a fear. But the fear of missing out is a fear. But the fear of missing out is a really big one. And if you've gotten rid really big one. And if you've gotten rid really big one. And if you've gotten rid of FOMO and fear, then you are already of FOMO and fear, then you are already of FOMO and fear, then you are already halfway there. It's one of the most halfway there. It's one of the most halfway there. It's one of the most important factors, one of the most important factors, one of the most important factors, one of the most important things that's holding you back important things that's holding you back important things that's holding you back in your trading. If you haven't gotten in your trading. If you haven't gotten in your trading. If you haven't gotten over FOMO and you haven't gotten over over FOMO and you haven't gotten over over FOMO and you haven't gotten over fear, you are not going to be profitable fear, you are not going to be profitable fear, you are not going to be profitable in the market. You are not going to get in the market. You are not going to get in the market. You are not going to get over that hurdle and you are not going over that hurdle and you are not going over that hurdle and you are not going to get to that next step. FOMO is one of to get to that next step. FOMO is one of to get to that next step. FOMO is one of the worst things in trading. You go into the worst things in trading. You go into the worst things in trading. You go into a profit, you're $30 up when you're a profit, you're $30 up when you're a profit, you're $30 up when you're targeting 2, 000 and you click sell targeting 2, 000 and you click sell targeting 2, 000 and you click sell because you just think it might go back because you just think it might go back because you just think it might go back into the red. That's part of FOMO. And into the red. That's part of FOMO. And into the red. That's part of FOMO. And the other part of FOMO is you see a the other part of FOMO is you see a the other part of FOMO is you see a trade starting to run and instead of trade starting to run and instead of trade starting to run and instead of waiting for the signal to say buy, you waiting for the signal to say buy, you waiting for the signal to say buy, you take the trade because you think I'm take the trade because you think I'm take the trade because you think I'm going to lose this. I'm not going to going to lose this. I'm not going to going to lose this. I'm not going to make that. It's going to run away make that. It's going to run away make that. It's going to run away without me. It's going to be off and without me. It's going to be off and without me. It's going to be off and it's going to leave me on the on the it's going to leave me on the on the it's going to leave me on the on the train station and the train's going to train station and the train's going to train station and the train's going to be gone called FOMO. And then you get be gone called FOMO. And then you get be gone called FOMO. And then you get into the trade and it does exactly the into the trade and it does exactly the into the trade and it does exactly the opposite to you and it takes all your opposite to you and it takes all your opposite to you and it takes all your money which is what trading does. I just money which is what trading does. I just money which is what trading does. I just love trading for that. That's why FOMO love trading for that. That's why FOMO love trading for that. That's why FOMO works against you. Fear works against works against you. Fear works against works against you. Fear works against you. Fear is such a big one. The fear of you. Fear is such a big one. The fear of you. Fear is such a big one. The fear of losing your profit or the fear of losing your profit or the fear of losing your profit or the fear of actually losing. If you're a beginner actually losing. If you're a beginner actually losing. If you're a beginner and you've just got into trading, one of and you've just got into trading, one of and you've just got into trading, one of the big things that's going to happen to the big things that's going to happen to the big things that's going to happen to you is even if you're losing $1, you're you is even if you're losing $1, you're you is even if you're losing $1, you're going to start getting the adrenaline. going to start getting the adrenaline. going to start getting the adrenaline. You're going to start getting the sweats You're going to start getting the sweats You're going to start getting the sweats because you know what? There's a fear because you know what? There's a fear because you know what? There's a fear thing in your brain. A fear, I think thing in your brain. A fear, I think thing in your brain. A fear, I think they call it a fear receptor. And and it they call it a fear receptor. And and it they call it a fear receptor. And and it comes from the dawn of time when you comes from the dawn of time when you comes from the dawn of time when you were sitting in the cave and there was a were sitting in the cave and there was a were sitting in the cave and there was a saber-tooth tiger coming towards the saber-tooth tiger coming towards the saber-tooth tiger coming towards the cave to eat you and your family and that cave to eat you and your family and that cave to eat you and your family and that fear kicks in, that adrenaline kicks in fear kicks in, that adrenaline kicks in fear kicks in, that adrenaline kicks in and you have to start scrambling and and you have to start scrambling and and you have to start scrambling and finding your way out of the situation. finding your way out of the situation. finding your way out of the situation. In our times and modern times when In our times and modern times when In our times and modern times when you're traders, that starts to kick in you're traders, that starts to kick in you're traders, that starts to kick in when you're losing money. Now, for most when you're losing money. Now, for most when you're losing money. Now, for most of us that have been here a long time, of us that have been here a long time, of us that have been here a long time, long as I have, and some of us lesser long as I have, and some of us lesser long as I have, and some of us lesser time, you learn to get over that. You time, you learn to get over that. You time, you learn to get over that. You learn your limits. You, you know, that learn your limits. You, you know, that learn your limits. You, you know, that first bit of if you lose five bucks, first bit of if you lose five bucks, first bit of if you lose five bucks, it's stressful. You get to the point it's stressful. You get to the point it's stressful. You get to the point where you realize, okay, I'm quite where you realize, okay, I'm quite where you realize, okay, I'm quite comfortable losing comfortable losing comfortable losing $200 and I'm quite comfortable winning $200 and I'm quite comfortable winning $200 and I'm quite comfortable winning thousands. And that's how it goes. That thousands. And that's how it goes. That thousands. And that's how it goes. That is the situation you need to get to. In is the situation you need to get to. In is the situation you need to get to. In other words, if you're not comfortable other words, if you're not comfortable other words, if you're not comfortable losing $400 and you can't sleep at night losing $400 and you can't sleep at night losing $400 and you can't sleep at night or you can't walk away from the trade or or you can't walk away from the trade or or you can't walk away from the trade or you're constantly checking it, that's a you're constantly checking it, that's a you're constantly checking it, that's a sure sign that you've overtraded and sure sign that you've overtraded and sure sign that you've overtraded and you're not comfortable with the amount you're not comfortable with the amount you're not comfortable with the amount you're losing. You get comfortable with you're losing. You get comfortable with you're losing. You get comfortable with the amount of losing is when you can the amount of losing is when you can the amount of losing is when you can take a trade, walk away from it, and take a trade, walk away from it, and take a trade, walk away from it, and you're not too worried about whether you you're not too worried about whether you you're not too worried about whether you lose that or not. But that also comes lose that or not. But that also comes lose that or not. But that also comes with point one, understanding the with point one, understanding the with point one, understanding the markets 50/50 and that you're gonna markets 50/50 and that you're gonna markets 50/50 and that you're gonna lose. Because once you understand that lose. Because once you understand that lose. Because once you understand that you're going to lose, then you you're going to lose, then you you're going to lose, then you understand that there are losing trades understand that there are losing trades understand that there are losing trades and you understand that the only way to and you understand that the only way to and you understand that the only way to make a profit is to make more on the make a profit is to make more on the make a profit is to make more on the wins and lose less on the losses. wins and lose less on the losses. wins and lose less on the losses. Effectively, the losses don't matter Effectively, the losses don't matter Effectively, the losses don't matter anymore. You just understand that you're anymore. You just understand that you're anymore. You just understand that you're going to lose that 200 bucks. And that's going to lose that 200 bucks. And that's going to lose that 200 bucks. And that's okay. You're paying for the trade. And okay. You're paying for the trade. And okay. You're paying for the trade. And if you paid for the trade, you're quite if you paid for the trade, you're quite if you paid for the trade, you're quite comfortable about where it's going to comfortable about where it's going to comfortable about where it's going to end up. So understanding that FOMO and end up. So understanding that FOMO and end up. So understanding that FOMO and fear is one of your biggest obstacles. fear is one of your biggest obstacles. fear is one of your biggest obstacles. And if you can get over that, then And if you can get over that, then And if you can get over that, then you're halfway to your you're halfway to your you're halfway to your profits. What's the big one, guys? profits. What's the big one, guys? profits. What's the big one, guys? What's point number five? You finally What's point number five? You finally What's point number five? You finally figure out that the figure out that the figure out that the money is in the strategy, not in the money is in the strategy, not in the money is in the strategy, not in the system or the squiggly lines. You system or the squiggly lines. You system or the squiggly lines. You finally figure out that the money is in finally figure out that the money is in finally figure out that the money is in the business plan. You finally figure the business plan. You finally figure the business plan. You finally figure out that the money is in the psychology, out that the money is in the psychology, out that the money is in the psychology, not in the lines, not in the edge, not not in the lines, not in the edge, not not in the lines, not in the edge, not in the system. The system will give you in the system. The system will give you in the system. The system will give you that high probability trade. The system that high probability trade. The system that high probability trade. The system will tell you that you've taken a good will tell you that you've taken a good will tell you that you've taken a good trade and in all likelihood it's going trade and in all likelihood it's going trade and in all likelihood it's going to go your way. Well, in all likelihood to go your way. Well, in all likelihood to go your way. Well, in all likelihood means 50/50. In all likelihood, you'll means 50/50. In all likelihood, you'll means 50/50. In all likelihood, you'll probably lose more than you win. And probably lose more than you win. And probably lose more than you win. And once you figured that out, once you once you figured that out, once you once you figured that out, once you realize that you need the strategy, not realize that you need the strategy, not realize that you need the strategy, not the system to make you money, then the the system to make you money, then the the system to make you money, then the aha moment comes to you. This is the one aha moment comes to you. This is the one aha moment comes to you. This is the one that blows your mind. You don't make that blows your mind. You don't make that blows your mind. You don't make money from the systems, you make money money from the systems, you make money money from the systems, you make money from the strategy. It's mind-blowing, from the strategy. It's mind-blowing, from the strategy. It's mind-blowing, but it's true. And so many people but it's true. And so many people but it's true. And so many people struggle to get their minds around this struggle to get their minds around this struggle to get their minds around this because they've been taught on their because they've been taught on their because they've been taught on their course that that system with the course that that system with the course that that system with the squiggly lines will make them loads of squiggly lines will make them loads of squiggly lines will make them loads of money. They've been taught on the course money. They've been taught on the course money. They've been taught on the course that that system is always going to make that that system is always going to make that that system is always going to make them the profits. They've been taught on them the profits. They've been taught on them the profits. They've been taught on the course that that system gives them the course that that system gives them the course that that system gives them the edge to make money in the market. the edge to make money in the market. the edge to make money in the market. What they don't teach you, and this What they don't teach you, and this What they don't teach you, and this comes with the comes with the comes with the final five, is that you're trading final five, is that you're trading final five, is that you're trading against human beings. You're not trading against human beings. You're not trading against human beings. You're not trading against maths. You're not trading against maths. You're not trading against maths. You're not trading against algorithms. You're trading against algorithms. You're trading against algorithms. You're trading against or with human beings. Now, that's the mind-blowing beings. Now, that's the mind-blowing beings. Now, that's the mind-blowing bit. Understanding that the stock bit. Understanding that the stock bit. Understanding that the stock market's not about charts. It's not market's not about charts. It's not market's not about charts. It's not about squiggly lines. It's about people. about squiggly lines. It's about people. about squiggly lines. It's about people. You are buying and selling from other You are buying and selling from other You are buying and selling from other people. Now, how do you have a business people. Now, how do you have a business people. Now, how do you have a business plan and a strategy and a plan and a strategy and a plan and a strategy and a psychology that's actually going to work psychology that's actually going to work psychology that's actually going to work for you? Well, I'm going to give it to for you? Well, I'm going to give it to for you? Well, I'm going to give it to you right now. So, listen very carefully you right now. So, listen very carefully you right now. So, listen very carefully and don't miss a beat. Don't miss a and don't miss a beat. Don't miss a and don't miss a beat. Don't miss a thing. Listen very carefully and I'm thing. Listen very carefully and I'm thing. Listen very carefully and I'm going to give you the strategy that will going to give you the strategy that will going to give you the strategy that will make you money in the markets if you make you money in the markets if you make you money in the markets if you follow it. But it's my strategy. This is follow it. But it's my strategy. This is follow it. But it's my strategy. This is not financial advice. Nothing I say cons not financial advice. Nothing I say cons not financial advice. Nothing I say cons constitutes financial advice. This video constitutes financial advice. This video constitutes financial advice. This video is for entertainment purposes only. And is for entertainment purposes only. And is for entertainment purposes only. And what you learn from me, you can use, what you learn from me, you can use, what you learn from me, you can use, don't use. It's totally up to you. Not don't use. It's totally up to you. Not don't use. It's totally up to you. Not forcing you to do anything. But if you forcing you to do anything. But if you forcing you to do anything. But if you follow this strategy, you will in all follow this strategy, you will in all follow this strategy, you will in all likelihood make good money in the likelihood make good money in the likelihood make good money in the markets. And the strategy is super markets. And the strategy is super markets. And the strategy is super simple, super easy, not a complicated simple, super easy, not a complicated simple, super easy, not a complicated thing in it. And it's an alo three-part thing in it. And it's an alo three-part thing in it. And it's an alo three-part business plan. And this is it. If you business plan. And this is it. If you business plan. And this is it. If you have now you I I normally use the adage have now you I I normally use the adage have now you I I normally use the adage of a $100, 000 account or a $25, 000 of a $100, 000 account or a $25, 000 of a $100, 000 account or a $25, 000 account. So if you want an account that account. So if you want an account that account. So if you want an account that size and you don't have the money for an size and you don't have the money for an size and you don't have the money for an account that size, get yourself a funded account that size, get yourself a funded account that size, get yourself a funded account, instant funding or a challenge account, instant funding or a challenge account, instant funding or a challenge account or whatever, and get into the account or whatever, and get into the account or whatever, and get into the market and simply take your profits out market and simply take your profits out market and simply take your profits out as soon as you've got them. I have left as soon as you've got them. I have left as soon as you've got them. I have left a link for you in the description if you a link for you in the description if you a link for you in the description if you need a funded account that lets you need a funded account that lets you need a funded account that lets you trade our way and lets you trade over trade our way and lets you trade over trade our way and lets you trade over the weekends, let you trade the news, the weekends, let you trade the news, the weekends, let you trade the news, and let you do whatever you like. So, if and let you do whatever you like. So, if and let you do whatever you like. So, if you want an account like that, go and you want an account like that, go and you want an account like that, go and grab one. They're really cheap. You can grab one. They're really cheap. You can grab one. They're really cheap. You can get a $25, 000 account for 100 bucks. get a $25, 000 account for 100 bucks. get a $25, 000 account for 100 bucks. What the hell? It's nothing. And if you What the hell? It's nothing. And if you What the hell? It's nothing. And if you lose it, you lose a h 100red bucks. If lose it, you lose a h 100red bucks. If lose it, you lose a h 100red bucks. If you win and you win a couple of you win and you win a couple of you win and you win a couple of thousand, then you put that in your bank thousand, then you put that in your bank thousand, then you put that in your bank account and you're kind of in a profit account and you're kind of in a profit account and you're kind of in a profit as far as I can tell. Yeah. Yeah. to be as far as I can tell. Yeah. Yeah. to be as far as I can tell. Yeah. Yeah. to be in a profit. How do you work with a in a profit. How do you work with a in a profit. How do you work with a strategy? Let's use the $25, 000 account strategy? Let's use the $25, 000 account strategy? Let's use the $25, 000 account as an example. It's quite easy to use as an example. It's quite easy to use as an example. It's quite easy to use them. Most of you might have the cash to them. Most of you might have the cash to them. Most of you might have the cash to do this. I've noticed on the little do this. I've noticed on the little do this. I've noticed on the little survey that I did that most of you do survey that I did that most of you do survey that I did that most of you do have cash accounts to run with. So, run have cash accounts to run with. So, run have cash accounts to run with. So, run with your cash accounts and keep them with your cash accounts and keep them with your cash accounts and keep them safe. So, you got a $25, 000 account. My safe. So, you got a $25, 000 account. My safe. So, you got a $25, 000 account. My policy is to risk 1% of the account on policy is to risk 1% of the account on policy is to risk 1% of the account on every single trade. You can choose every single trade. You can choose every single trade. You can choose whatever percentage you like. I just whatever percentage you like. I just whatever percentage you like. I just find that 1% works really well for me. find that 1% works really well for me. find that 1% works really well for me. Might not work so well for you, but it Might not work so well for you, but it Might not work so well for you, but it works really well for me. 1% of $25, 000 works really well for me. 1% of $25, 000 works really well for me. 1% of $25, 000 is is is $250. That's $250. That's $250. That's $250 per trade every single trade that's $250 per trade every single trade that's $250 per trade every single trade that's risked. If I take 10 trades and I lose risked. If I take 10 trades and I lose risked. If I take 10 trades and I lose them all, which is unlikely, but if it them all, which is unlikely, but if it them all, which is unlikely, but if it happens, you lose 10% of your account, happens, you lose 10% of your account, happens, you lose 10% of your account, which is recoverable. My goal is not to which is recoverable. My goal is not to which is recoverable. My goal is not to make you rich here. My goal is to make make you rich here. My goal is to make make you rich here. My goal is to make you competent and to keep you in the you competent and to keep you in the you competent and to keep you in the game. That's what we want to do. We want game. That's what we want to do. We want game. That's what we want to do. We want to keep you in the game. You've risked to keep you in the game. You've risked to keep you in the game. You've risked $250 per trade. How do I take that trade $250 per trade. How do I take that trade $250 per trade. How do I take that trade now? Really simple. You go in and you now? Really simple. You go in and you now? Really simple. You go in and you see the trade that you want. this is the see the trade that you want. this is the see the trade that you want. this is the trade that I want to take. You take that trade that I want to take. You take that trade that I want to take. You take that trade, you look at it, you say, where trade, you look at it, you say, where trade, you look at it, you say, where will I put my invalidation here? My stop will I put my invalidation here? My stop will I put my invalidation here? My stop loss. I call it invalidation because you loss. I call it invalidation because you loss. I call it invalidation because you need to look at the trade and say, if need to look at the trade and say, if need to look at the trade and say, if the price gets to that point, this trade the price gets to that point, this trade the price gets to that point, this trade will be so invalid to me that I wouldn't will be so invalid to me that I wouldn't will be so invalid to me that I wouldn't take this trade with your money. I don't take this trade with your money. I don't take this trade with your money. I don't want that trade. That's your stop-loss want that trade. That's your stop-loss want that trade. That's your stop-loss point. Now, you work out how much $250 point. Now, you work out how much $250 point. Now, you work out how much $250 is to the cost back to that. How many is to the cost back to that. How many is to the cost back to that. How many lots? How many pips? Whatever you're lots? How many pips? Whatever you're lots? How many pips? Whatever you're trading, okay? Some of you are only trading, okay? Some of you are only trading, okay? Some of you are only trading forex or some of you only trading forex or some of you only trading forex or some of you only trading crypto. Some of you only trading trading crypto. Some of you only trading trading crypto. Some of you only trading indexes. I trade it all. Doesn't matter indexes. I trade it all. Doesn't matter indexes. I trade it all. Doesn't matter to me. As long as it's tradable, I'll to me. As long as it's tradable, I'll to me. As long as it's tradable, I'll trade it. If you tell me orange peels trade it. If you tell me orange peels trade it. If you tell me orange peels are tradable, I'll trade them cuz it's are tradable, I'll trade them cuz it's are tradable, I'll trade them cuz it's tradable. It's just a market. It's human tradable. It's just a market. It's human tradable. It's just a market. It's human beings buying and selling from each beings buying and selling from each beings buying and selling from each other. That's all it is. $250. Back to other. That's all it is. $250. Back to other. That's all it is. $250. Back to the cost. How many pips? How many lots? the cost. How many pips? How many lots? the cost. How many pips? How many lots? Work it out. Now, you've got the size of Work it out. Now, you've got the size of Work it out. Now, you've got the size of your trade. Now, all you got to make your trade. Now, all you got to make your trade. Now, all you got to make sure is that you got a good sure is that you got a good sure is that you got a good risk-to-reward because you don't want to risk-to-reward because you don't want to risk-to-reward because you don't want to be losing be losing be losing $250 and only targeting a $40 profit. $250 and only targeting a $40 profit. $250 and only targeting a $40 profit. That's just insane. That's not worth it, That's just insane. That's not worth it, That's just insane. That's not worth it, is it? Surely, you want to make more is it? Surely, you want to make more is it? Surely, you want to make more than what you're losing. Now, I don't than what you're losing. Now, I don't than what you're losing. Now, I don't mind if you take a one: 1. If you can mind if you take a one: 1. If you can mind if you take a one: 1. If you can make $250 on the trade, then take it. make $250 on the trade, then take it. make $250 on the trade, then take it. But obviously, it's better if you can But obviously, it's better if you can But obviously, it's better if you can make $350, $400, $500 on the trade. Try make $350, $400, $500 on the trade. Try make $350, $400, $500 on the trade. Try and go for 2: 1. But make sure that the and go for 2: 1. But make sure that the and go for 2: 1. But make sure that the target's achievable. Don't just say, target's achievable. Don't just say, target's achievable. Don't just say, "I'm going to make a two to one trade "I'm going to make a two to one trade "I'm going to make a two to one trade here. " Try and make an achievable here. " Try and make an achievable here. " Try and make an achievable target. You can see on the chart, it's target. You can see on the chart, it's target. You can see on the chart, it's going to make that profit. That's a good going to make that profit. That's a good going to make that profit. That's a good trade. That $250 doesn't have to be trade. That $250 doesn't have to be trade. That $250 doesn't have to be exactly $250, guys. You can make it 260, exactly $250, guys. You can make it 260, exactly $250, guys. You can make it 260, 270, 220, 230. Just fit it in there, 270, 220, 230. Just fit it in there, 270, 220, 230. Just fit it in there, guys. Don't be insane about it. Don't be guys. Don't be insane about it. Don't be guys. Don't be insane about it. Don't be pedantic about it. Just close by. It's pedantic about it. Just close by. It's pedantic about it. Just close by. It's not a hard and fast rule. just keep it not a hard and fast rule. just keep it not a hard and fast rule. just keep it in that area because the reason I have in that area because the reason I have in that area because the reason I have that rule, it's it is an important rule. that rule, it's it is an important rule. that rule, it's it is an important rule. If you lose many trades at that value, If you lose many trades at that value, If you lose many trades at that value, the idea is you know exactly how much the idea is you know exactly how much the idea is you know exactly how much you're losing on every single trade. One you're losing on every single trade. One you're losing on every single trade. One trade isn't wiping out your account trade isn't wiping out your account trade isn't wiping out your account because if you're sculping, that's what because if you're sculping, that's what because if you're sculping, that's what happens. You're trading, trading, happens. You're trading, trading, happens. You're trading, trading, trading, and then one trade takes out trading, and then one trade takes out trading, and then one trade takes out all those wins. Now, you lose a couple all those wins. Now, you lose a couple all those wins. Now, you lose a couple of trades at that value. you know of trades at that value. you know of trades at that value. you know exactly what percentage you're losing exactly what percentage you're losing exactly what percentage you're losing and you're trying to make more on the and you're trying to make more on the and you're trying to make more on the wins on the upside. The trick here is wins on the upside. The trick here is wins on the upside. The trick here is when your trade goes into the win when your trade goes into the win when your trade goes into the win heading towards your target profit, try heading towards your target profit, try heading towards your target profit, try and take your stop loss up to cost if and take your stop loss up to cost if and take your stop loss up to cost if you can so that the trade's now costing you can so that the trade's now costing you can so that the trade's now costing you nothing because you must remember you nothing because you must remember you nothing because you must remember when you put that stop loss in when you put that stop loss in when you put that stop loss in effectively the trade is costing you effectively the trade is costing you effectively the trade is costing you $250. When you take it up to cost it's $250. When you take it up to cost it's $250. When you take it up to cost it's costing you nothing. So you've lost costing you nothing. So you've lost costing you nothing. So you've lost nothing if that goes back and takes it nothing if that goes back and takes it nothing if that goes back and takes it out. Everybody says, "Oh, wow. I got out. Everybody says, "Oh, wow. I got out. Everybody says, "Oh, wow. I got taken out of cost. " You've lost nothing taken out of cost. " You've lost nothing taken out of cost. " You've lost nothing if it does that. And if it goes into if it does that. And if it goes into if it does that. And if it goes into profit, you make some more money. Guys, profit, you make some more money. Guys, profit, you make some more money. Guys, that's as simple as the strategy gets. that's as simple as the strategy gets. that's as simple as the strategy gets. Don't just take your profit, follow your Don't just take your profit, follow your Don't just take your profit, follow your stop loss up behind it, and try and make stop loss up behind it, and try and make stop loss up behind it, and try and make as much as you possibly can. Put a as much as you possibly can. Put a as much as you possibly can. Put a trailing stop and it follow it up. trailing stop and it follow it up. trailing stop and it follow it up. You'll have a whole lot of small You'll have a whole lot of small You'll have a whole lot of small mishmash profits and smaller profits mishmash profits and smaller profits mishmash profits and smaller profits from the stop- loss coming back and from the stop- loss coming back and from the stop- loss coming back and taking out trailing stops or break evens taking out trailing stops or break evens taking out trailing stops or break evens or whatever the case. just accept that or whatever the case. just accept that or whatever the case. just accept that you're looking for those big ones. you're looking for those big ones. you're looking for those big ones. There's a company out there that used to There's a company out there that used to There's a company out there that used to massive company used to take massive massive company used to take massive massive company used to take massive trades. You had people working on the trades. You had people working on the trades. You had people working on the shop floor. They used to win two trades shop floor. They used to win two trades shop floor. They used to win two trades out of 10 and they were more profitable out of 10 and they were more profitable out of 10 and they were more profitable than most of the other companies on the than most of the other companies on the than most of the other companies on the same block. So don't think that winning same block. So don't think that winning same block. So don't think that winning more of your trades makes you the wins. more of your trades makes you the wins. more of your trades makes you the wins. Winning more on the individual trades is Winning more on the individual trades is Winning more on the individual trades is what makes you the wins. The losses what makes you the wins. The losses what makes you the wins. The losses don't count. You can get out of the don't count. You can get out of the don't count. You can get out of the losses early, do so. The earlier you can losses early, do so. The earlier you can losses early, do so. The earlier you can get out of a loss, the better it is for get out of a loss, the better it is for get out of a loss, the better it is for your account. You want to know more your account. You want to know more your account. You want to know more about my system on high probability about my system on high probability about my system on high probability trading with the charts and that sort of trading with the charts and that sort of trading with the charts and that sort of thing, go and watch my last videos. And thing, go and watch my last videos. And thing, go and watch my last videos. And if you want to know more about my if you want to know more about my if you want to know more about my strategy, I think you know enough about strategy, I think you know enough about strategy, I think you know enough about it. You're more than welcome to watch it. You're more than welcome to watch it. You're more than welcome to watch those videos as well. Guys, don't forget those videos as well. Guys, don't forget those videos as well. Guys, don't forget like, comment, and subscribe if you like, comment, and subscribe if you like, comment, and subscribe if you enjoyed the video. I do hope have helped enjoyed the video. I do hope have helped enjoyed the video. I do hope have helped you in some way or another. Join us for you in some way or another. Join us for you in some way or another. Join us for the live shows on the Tuesday and the the live shows on the Tuesday and the the live shows on the Tuesday and the Thursday as well where we all sit Thursday as well where we all sit Thursday as well where we all sit together and we choose trades on the together and we choose trades on the together and we choose trades on the funded account together. Thanks for funded account together. Thanks for funded account together. Thanks for watching and until the next one, keep watching and until the next one, keep watching and until the next one, keep your feet on the ground, reach for the your feet on the ground, reach for the your feet on the ground, reach for the sky. Cheers. Ciao. Bye.
