Timestamp: 2025-01-11T22:54:11.163218
Title: 40分钟解毒中国文化，《奴化的人——中国文化的深层结构》核心概念，重要知识点总结 | 解毒中国文化050 | 中国文化的深层结构 | 二人结构 | 他制他律 | 圈子 | 铲平主义
URL: https://youtu.be/ON-isqHM9eg?si=ztV9ogggSj89GJ9a
Status: success
Duration: 41:38

Description:
**Summary:**

**I. Core Concepts from "The Deep Structure of Chinese Culture"**

   *   **A. The Book's Premise:**
        *   Published in 1983 by Sun Longji, aimed at analyzing the deep-rooted structure of Chinese culture.
        *   Intended to help individuals move past traditional Chinese cultural norms.
        *   Critiques deeply ingrained Chinese behaviors and thought patterns.
   *   **B. Core Idea: Two-Person Structure**
        *   Chinese culture is fundamentally based on a "two-person" relational model.
        *   Individual identity and self-affirmation rely on others' expressions.
        *   This structure prioritizes interpersonal relationships over individual autonomy.
        *   Examples: Wuchang (gentleman, father, son, husband, wife, brother, friend) are all based on this dual relationship.
    *   **C. Conscience System:**
        *  A framework in Chinese culture aimed at maintaining social stability and harmony.
        *   Individuals are conditioned to seek ease and conformity within this system.
        *   Prioritizes collective values and stability over individual expression.
   *   **D. Body vs. Soul:**
       *   Chinese culture emphasizes the physical body and its preservation.
       *   The mind and soul are less prioritized, with a focus on corporeal existence.
       *   This is distinct from Western cultures, which focus on the soul's perfection, and Latin cultures, which focus on spirit and passion.
       *   Heart is emotionalized, with minimal space for individual choice.
   *   **E. Intergenerational Dynamics:**
       *  Chinese intergenerational relationships require deference to elders.
       *  Contrast with Western emphasis on independence and self-development.
       *  "Filial piety" (Xiao) dictates complete agreement with the older generation.
   *  **F. Self-Suppression and Social Harmony:**
       *  To maintain harmony, Chinese people tend to suppress their own opinions and desires.
       *  This leads to blurred self-boundaries and a dependence on social approval.
   *   **G. Circle Mentality:**
        *   Chinese society is structured around interconnected circles defined by close relationships.
        *   Behavior changes depending on whether one is inside or outside these circles.
       *   Prioritizes comfort within the circle.

**II. Key Issues Arising from the Core Concepts:**

    *   **A. Unclear Personal Boundaries:**
        *   The two-person structure leads to unclear boundaries between individuals.
        *   Results in tendencies toward manipulation, over-interference, and difficulty in independent thought and self-assertion.
    *   **B. Lack of Individual Autonomy:**
        *   Individual self-affirmation depends on external validation.
        *   There is a lack of true moral choice; external constraints replace self-determination.
    *   **C. Somatization Tendency:**
        *   Life focuses on preserving the body rather than spiritual or intellectual pursuits.
        *  Leads to a tendency to prioritize physical needs and material comfort.
    *   **D.  Suppressed Individuality:**
        *   Self-expression is constrained within the two-person structure and social circles.
        *  Personal growth, rebellion and individuality are limited or discouraged.
    *   **E. Erasure Tendencies:**
        *   Outstanding individuals face obstruction to ensure conformity.
        *  Focus on maintaining an average group level, suppressing those who excel.

**III.  Social and Political Structures**

    *   **A. Government and Society as a Two-Person Structure**
        *   Government is seen as a parental authority tasked with supporting the population.
        *  Society seeks to avoid chaos, which is achieved through education and restraint of the population.
    *   **B. Static Societal Goals**
        *   Chinese society aims for stability and order, rather than dynamic progression or individual growth.
        *   This static goal suppresses innovation and transcendence.

**IV. Criticisms of Chinese Culture and Call to Action**

    *   **A.  Critique as Essential for Growth:**
        *   Criticizing Chinese culture is important for reflection and progress.
        *   Encourages a move away from inherited negative traits and towards a more vital life.
        *   The absence of self-reflection is a sign of poor cultural health.
    *   **B. The Call to Become a New Individual:**
         * Encourages individuals to develop independent thinking, mental and physical health, and a well-rounded personality.
         *  The goal is to create an open and evolving society.

**V. Conclusion**

*   **Core Point:** Chinese culture is designed around a two-person relational structure, which inhibits individual autonomy and prioritizes collective harmony and stability over personal expression.
*   **Fundamental Point:** The deep structure of Chinese culture, centered on a two-person relationship, a preference for body over soul and a static societal goal, creates a system where self-suppression, group-think and lack of independent thought are prevalent, hindering individual growth and societal progress.

**VI. Overarching Framework:**

The content presents an analysis of Chinese culture using a structural framework, focusing on how interpersonal relationships, individual definitions, and societal goals are interconnected. It critically assesses the impact of the two-person structure, the emphasis on the body over the spirit, and the static goals of society, highlighting a suppression of individualism and innovation.

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph LR
    A[Chinese Culture] --> B(Two-Person Structure);
    B --> C[Individual Identity];
    B --> D[Social Interactions];
    C --> E(Reliance on Others' Expressions);
    C --> F(Suppressed Individuality);
    D --> G(Social Harmony);
        D --> H(Circle Mentality);
    G --> I(Blur Self-Boundaries);
    G --> J(Limited Individual Autonomy);
    H --> K(In-group vs Out-group);
        I-->L(Emotionalization of Reason);
    J --> M(Static Goals of Society);
    M --> N(Suppressed Innovation);
   A --> O(Conscience System);
     O-->P(Body over Soul);
      P --> Q(Somatization Tendency);
        A --> R(Intergenerational Dynamics);
    R--> S(Emphasis on Filial Piety);
  S --> T(Lack of generational autonomy);
     A --> U(Eradicationism);
  U --> V(Suppression of the Outstanding);
       style A fill:#f9f,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
       style B fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
       style C fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
        style D fill:#ccf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
        style E fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
        style F fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
        style G fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
       style H fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
         style I fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
        style J fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
        style K fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
            style L fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
        style M fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
            style N fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
                style O fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
                 style P fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
                     style Q fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
                      style R fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
                         style S fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
                            style T fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
                             style U fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
                                style V fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
</Mermaid_Diagram>


Content:
After reading this book "The Deep Structure of Chinese Culture", let's make a summary. Let's summarize several core concepts in the book from the overall structure. The main part is divided into ten major modules. This is the overall structure diagram to help you understand better. Grasp several important cognitive points in this book. This is the first book in the detoxifying Chinese culture reading series. If you want to listen to more content, you can subscribe to my YouTube channel. After reading this book, I will read more on the topic of detoxifying Chinese culture. The book " The Deep Structure of Chinese Culture" was first published in 1983 to help you kill the Chinese cultural virus in your mind. At the individual level, you can achieve cultural exodus from Egypt and jump to the state of modern civilization as soon as possible. Let's get started. "Slavery People - The Deep Structure of Chinese Culture" is the work of Mr. Sun Longji, a Chinese-American historian. Mr. Sun Longji was born in Chongqing, Zhejiang, and has lived in mainland China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, the United States and other places. He made detailed and in-depth observations in the Chinese cultural circle. This rich life experience allowed Sun Longji to have a deep understanding of the core areas of Chinese civilization. At the same time, his study and life overseas gave him a deeper understanding of the characteristics of the Chinese people in comparison with foreigners. Comparing Chinese culture with other cultures in the world at the level of deep structure, he formed his own theory about the structure of Chinese culture to explain Chinese cultural phenomena. Finally, in the 1980s, the dissatisfaction with his own culture that had been accumulated in Sun Longji's heart was In 1983, he lived in mainland China for two years. In 1983, he wrote "Slaved People - The Deep Structure of Chinese Culture". This book by Mr. Sun raised the structure and setting of Chinese culture to a theoretical level. It simply criticizes Chinese people's behavioral habits and ways of thinking piecemeal, but further explains the reasons for the formation of Chinese people's behavioral habits and ways of thinking, thus comprehensively surpassing the masters of Chinese cultural criticism such as Lu Xun and Bo Yang and becoming an understanding of Chinese culture. One of the most profound writings, readers will feel that the writing of this book is fiery, but it is not a fiery patriotism, but a close to white-hot reflection and criticism of one's own culture. This reflection and criticism is so strong that the cultural criticism inspired by it is far away. The characteristic of this book, which goes far beyond the general criticism of national character, is that it does not generally list a few or a dozen of the bad qualities of the people and then propose commonplace remedies, but rather cuts them in an almost thousand-cut manner. This strong feeling is that only It feels like being in it and trying your best to break free. At the beginning of this book, a point is made about the conscience system of Chinese culture. This is the first step in discussing culture. The so-called conscience system of the Chinese people creates in individuals the intention to settle down and feel at ease. The structure of the entire culture leads to great governance, stability and unity in the world, and its political intention is to calm the people's minds so that the few know and want without chaos, maintaining the stability of the entire structure and becoming the unified value judgment of the entire society from top to bottom. Therefore, the entire history of China The deep structure presented in the development process is manifested as an ultra-stable system. Chinese people often discuss national character to save the country, while Americans often discuss national character to save individuals. Sun Longji is obviously more inclined to the latter attitude, so this is what I made. The original intention of this series of programs to detoxify Chinese culture. As a small person, I don’t have the power to change the organization, society and the country, but I can make changes to myself to a certain extent. When I read this book for the first time, I had a very strong feeling: How can I change this book? I have only read it now. If I had read it earlier, I might be less likely to be deceived by the Chinese to a large extent, and I would also be able to live less like a Chinese, which means I would live a more vital life. Of course, the ideal situation would be if every Chinese People 's self-improvement and upgrading will eventually bring about changes and upgrading of society and the country, just like the inspiration brought by Lutheran ideas. Self-salvation will bring about changes. Don't expect others to help. The following is the core concept part of this book. The first part The two-person structure of Chinese culture's design for people is based on this ultra-stable system. The author is a benevolent person. This point of view leads to the idea that Chinese individuals must be held in a one-to-one relationship before two people can have feelings for each other. The mind of one person who is restricted by human feelings will be regarded as a willful act. A mind that is not restricted by the minds of two people can easily become selfish. Taoism is self-interested. Confucianism means that the king of others is called the king, and the king calls himself the king. The minority is equal, which shows that the Chinese people The way one body is structured must be taken care of by two hearts. This leads to the point that in Chinese culture, individual self-affirmation must always rely on the expressions of others. Then we will see the spiritual self-improvement of the Chinese people. We must rely on others, that is, dedicate ourselves to the collective cause, use national organizational units to define ourselves, be obedient, obey the organizational arrangements, take no pride in personal charm, so as to please others and integrate into the whole. This is the same as parents to their children, and bosses to subordinates. If the other party does not appreciate it, we will return the favor. It is not for your own good to comfort you, so Chinese people are never one person, but complete the social structure through a basic two-person structure. One person cares for the other person with his heart, and the other person also reciprocates in the same way. Both parties are caring for each other. The message has achieved the purpose of settling down, and at the same time, both parties feel at ease because of the heart-to-heart communication. Generally speaking, when Chinese people greet each other, they say " How are you? " Thank you for your concern. This question and answer is the best description of the Chinese two-person structure. The most common two-person structure among Chinese people is what the Chinese often call the Wuchang, that is, gentleman, father, son, husband, wife, brother, friend. Confucianism says that the benevolent person is this. The word " ren" means "two people" when broken down. In other words, a successful person must pay attention to the relativity between two people. Therefore, Chinese people pay attention to the relative nature of two people. Things that are suitable for each other are called opposites. Otherwise, it is wrong. If anything is wrong, I am sorry for the Chinese. This relative two-person structure is a sign of a Chinese's success. In social situations, the Chinese will like to ask you where you work, are you married, and have you had children? It is all about confirming whether the other person has the relationship of a monarch, a minister, a husband, a father and a son. Especially in China, even if a person is in his thirties, as long as he is not married, he will be regarded as an immature individual and as a semi-adult who has not grown up. Those who are married and have no children will be treated as immature individuals by those who have children. On the contrary, in China, individuals who do not have a relationship are considered to be a poor failure and unable to take care of themselves. However, Words that describe a person are mostly derogatory, such as loneliness, isolation, alone, etc. The social structure of two people defining one person has led to the following four problems: First, the boundaries between person and me are unclear in Chinese culture. The relationship between you and me is something similar to a grammatical rule that can be deduced into many possibilities. It can lead to the tendency to be anxious and impatient, never take it seriously, and not expect others to reciprocate. It can also lead to the use of debts of favor. The manipulation and use of others can be manifested as always thinking about others, or it can be manifested as interference in other people's private lives and obstacles to personality development. This tendency is particularly easy to appear in the care of elders for juniors, superiors, and subordinates. The Chinese people's quality of peace and harmony gives people a feeling of being easy to get along with and easy to talk to. This attitude of giving up confrontation often results in the weakening of the self. The blurred concept of self-rights makes it impossible to establish strong self-boundaries among most Chinese people. It creates a tendency to debase oneself in order to gain social approval. Therefore, in order to maintain the harmony of interpersonal relationships, We tend to tend to cater to others. Sometimes after expressing our own opinions, we immediately change our opinions and agree with other people's different opinions. Sometimes we have objections, but we always bury them in our hearts and dare not express the third-generation relationship people's first opinion on authority. A reaction occurs in the family. The attitude towards social authority when growing up is often a continuous reaction against family authority. The intergenerational relationship in the West emphasizes the fracture. Each generation completely establishes itself after growing up. Sexuality fully sprouts and at the same time the older generation is completely eliminated and the position they occupy is completely taken over to fully allow one's own independent personality to emerge. The concern for the older generation is all out of true feelings in the heart rather than an obligation or obligation. In situations such as filial piety performed in front of a social audience, the intergenerational relationship will evolve into a friendship relationship based on personality equality. On the other hand, most intergenerational relationships in China require the next generation to completely surrender to the previous generation, and believe that only when they fully agree with each other, The author talks about what is called filial piety, so we use Xiao and Unxiao to define filial piety and unfilial piety, and Xiao means similar meanings. Around us, we often hear some parents say that the reason why I work so hard is not to honor my ancestors, nor is it because of you. For the sake of the previous generation is for the sake of the next generation, which undoubtedly reflects the deep culture. This approach has led to the emergence of patriarchy and treats the next generation as people who cannot support themselves and controls them everywhere. Over time, the next generation also develops a sense of dependence on the previous generation. The fourth introspective personality cannot be fully independent. Here is a very sharp point of view. Everyone says that the Chinese are a very moral nation, but according to my opinion, morality involves self-choice, a situation in which self-choice has never occurred. It can’t be considered a moral situation. The person who said this sentence was a Norwegian student whom the author once met. I don’t know how the author felt at the time. It’s just that when I saw this sentence, I felt very uncomfortable in my heart. This point of view expresses Christianity. The concept of free will is foreign to Chinese culture. Confucianism has a profound influence on us. It believes that people need to cultivate themselves first and then extend themselves to others. Therefore, Chinese people also go through the process of introspection rather than purely externally. But this Typed personality is only limited to a very limited extent to a small number of spiritual people or people who pay attention to right and wrong. Part 2: The body and mind of Chinese people are different from Westerners or Latin people. Chinese people regard an individual as a body, that is, a person. The body is more important to the Chinese than the mind or soul, so the Chinese pay special attention to keeping in good health, which is the so-called health preservation. The description of an individual in Chinese language is also full of such concepts. For example, describing oneself can be called oneself. Talking about a person's possessions is called net worth. Talking about a person's origin is called origin. Talking about a person's changed destiny is called turning over. Talking about a person's feelings is called experiencing and taking action. Attacking a person is called personal attack. etc. Ancient Chinese scholars paid attention to self-cultivation, managing the family and the country. This can be seen from the Chinese people. For the Chinese, the description of a person is entirely physical. A Chinese is a Body, and his heart and soul are not so important. For the Chinese, the biggest theme of life is to preserve the body, which means that the existence of the body should be protected from the beginning. The difference between the big tradition of Chinese scholar-officials and the small tradition of ordinary people. Speaking of the ideal of the scholar-officials to be close to the people, it is to take care of the people of the world so that everyone in the world can live and have a bite to eat. Therefore, the slogan is to relieve the people from hanging upside down. The life intention of the common people is to live and The original word in Anshen's book is "find food ", which is pronounced in Cantonese. I may not be able to pronounce it correctly. Without the government's care, one has to go it alone, but this way of going one's own way is still not individualized. Instead, one must put one's own The Chinese people's need to settle down in the shrinking human magnetic field leads to peace of mind. On the one hand, it is very realistic, and on the other hand, it has no individualistic tendency. The Chinese also have psychological activities, but the Chinese heart is not used for The Chinese people of the previous generation will always teach young people to put others before themselves, not to be self-interested, but to care for others. Chinese words related to the heart are always related to others, such as caring, sadness, chilling, worry, etc. Chinese people pay attention to the harmony between people. They believe that only if you care about others first, others will care about you. Therefore, when you meet people who are not familiar with each other, you must first put your heart on others, and then others will care about them. He will give his heart to you and act on your body. After the two parties have a heart-to-heart relationship, they both feel at ease and become their own people. In terms of the heart, the author proposes that human feelings are the main spiritual form of the Chinese. The Chinese heart contains feelings and thoughts. The result of the emotionalization of intelligence in judgment and will is that even will and judgment are also emotionalized. Therefore, the individual has little room for choice. Such an individual's frailty will often be surrounded by the magnetic field of human feelings. The individual cannot define himself and must Only the relationship between benevolence and benevolence can define oneself. For such an individual, there is only one choice to escape from freedom. In general, Chinese culture designs people to be heart-oriented animals and uses the hearts of others to restrict themselves. The internal structure of the conscience system composed of the body and the mind, that is, the individual is a body without spirituality, and the mind composed of my body and the human body must be displayed within the magnetic field of human feelings. The third part of the Chinese people's human nature setting for China The setting of human nature is specially introduced as a contrast between the human nature of Westerners and Latins. The human nature of Westerners is centered on obtaining a perfect soul. The soul is a supernatural thing that transcends matter and spirit and even transcends this life. Westerners combine the body and the soul. The spirit is regarded as a whole and the body is a machine. Many times they just fill the body with simple food and then go to realize their spiritual needs and soul needs. This is why many Westerners have no hesitation to challenge themselves and take a hot air balloon ride across the Taiwan Strait. Many people who travel around the world and come to China’s rural areas to teach are motivated by the perfection of their souls and feel that they are driven by their souls to do so. Sometimes intentional ignorance and intentional superstition on this issue often make people feel happier. In short, Westerners treat the body in a bad way. The roughest treatment of the spirit is better, but the most important thing is that individuals are unified in the soul. In social interactions, they don’t care much about other people’s opinions. Besides, Latin people’s human nature setting focuses on spirituality, including passion, emotion, and spiritual cognition. Therefore, Latin people think about life. The love of Dionysus is usually expressed in the form of singing, drinking and beauties. This is a concrete manifestation of their pursuit of passion. In social life, Latins also usually attach importance to their spiritual pursuits, so in their governments The opposition is also the largest and the government often collapses. In social life, Latin people regard the soul mentioned in religion as a reference for their spiritual identity. On the one hand, they have to take secular comments into consideration, and on the other hand, they also take into account their own spiritual pursuits. The Chinese Differently, the center of Chinese people's life is the body. Everything is based on taking care of the body. They require food, clothing and warmth. They pay attention to food culture and pay attention to settling down and resting. In social interactions, they care most about the world and care little about the spirit. It is even more unheard of in China. There is no religion that transcends this world. Everything requires rewards in this world. So if a daughter is dating her boyfriend and her father objects to it, the Western approach is usually to confront her father, make a big fuss, or even run away from home. It's very possible that the Latin people's approach is to be obedient and secretive. On the surface, they will tell their father that we don't have any contact with each other. After all, it is still secretive to do what you want, but Chinese people will be very concerned about really cutting off contact with their boyfriends. Part 4 So this leads to the logic of Chinese people's hearts. Chinese people must first confirm their relationship with each other. People begin to expand their friendship to build relationships. How to enhance communication? The most straightforward manifestation is to treat guests to dinner. Therefore, we often see people participating in various social activities and euphemistically saying that it is easy to talk at the dinner table. Generally speaking, the situation varies according to closeness and distance. The logic that one should take care of oneself first is taken to the extreme, but when one meets a stranger who is really respectable or has just established a relationship and wants to entertain them hospitably, people put the nobles first and despise oneself to the extreme, so we often see that when When their own children fight with the children next door, parents often hit their own children first, regardless of which side is right. This will lead to the child's self-compression, doing everything to cater to others, or adapting to the situation and only seeking peace. Ignoring principles, Chinese people always live within a set circle. In this circle, they will be respectful, but once they jump out of this circle, they will completely lose order. This is why we see spitting and queue-jumping on the street. Finally, let’s talk about it. Selfishness in Chinese culture emphasizes the preservation of natural principles and the elimination of human desires. This actually reflects the way of life that must be controlled by the minds of both parties in daily life. This is what Confucius said about self-denial, restoration of propriety, and individual self-transcendence and benevolence. It is not to achieve a higher principle than the world, but to transcend one's own selfishness and conform to the collective and public heart of human ethics. On the one hand, the Chinese advocate the virtue of selflessness, which makes everyone ignore their own basic rights and despise others. and insults, and even without realizing it, on the other hand, they adopt a beggar-thy-neighbor attitude towards the world outside themselves. The above four parts mainly involve individual people, that is, how China's conscience system treats the Chinese people. The Chinese, who are the first to design, define man as a product of human ethics and collectivism. Man can only be reflected in social relationships. He is the synthesis of all social roles. These roles include monarchs, ministers, fathers, sons, couples, brothers, friends, etc. In other words, Chinese people The normal situation is to use a channelized relationship between two people to define any individual. There is no legitimacy for a single individual. Second, the Chinese conscience system divides people into body and heart. The heart is dominant between the two, while the body is organized and organized. The way of structure is completed by the hearts of others, that is, it is controlled by the hearts of human ethics and community. Since individual self-affirmation must always rely on the expressions of others, personality expression is self-compression. Individual and social behaviors must also be heteronomous and heteronomous. The third Chinese people’s heart includes emotions, intelligence, will, morality, reason, and judgment. However, all these can be emotional. Rational thinking can be subverted by emotions and human feelings, while emotions are dominated by harmony. The fourth Chinese people have a strong tendency to somatize. The intention of the whole person's life is directed to satisfying the needs of the body. The individual has no spiritual subject. This cultural characteristic directs all human activities to the real world. Under the design of the above-mentioned conscience system, the author's tendency of Chinese people's bodyization is oralization and analization. The tendency of desexualization, the tendency of humanization, the tendency of maternal-fetalization, the tendency of harmony, the tendency of filicide, the tendency of clowning and the tendency of typing, etc. were analyzed through diffusion and correlation under the conscience system. Except for some explanations in some places, these analyzes It is basically in line with the logical explanation. In short, Chinese culture designs people to be heart-centered and body-targeted animals, and uses other people’s hearts to control their hearts. This is because it does not have cultural legitimacy on an individual basis. Sun Longji regarded this design as an anti-life design, which is also the origin of the title of the first book, The Slavish Man. In his opinion, individuals in Western Protestant culture use their own reason to make their lives methodological. Accurate organization in order to face challenges, self-development and completion is the joyful life. Regarding the Chinese conscience system, among the four characteristics dissected by the author, in addition to the tendency of somatization, which shows the contentment and decadence of life, the other three are more Showing such a grammar, Chinese people need the heart to define this heart as the heart of others. The heart is controlled by emotions, and emotions are dominated by harmony. In other words, Chinese people are ultimately under the control of human ethics and harmony. This raises a question of harmony. Sex is in the hands of the majority of the community, while the creativity and transcendence of a community are often expressed by a minority. Under the deep structure of Chinese culture, those few people with outstanding personalities will not only be marginalized, but even The fate of being blocked, suppressed, and strangled is also the reason why China has had no real innovation for thousands of years, because innovation means subversion and transcendence. This society is exactly the cannibal society that Lu Xun strongly criticized, because this society advocates self- cultivation, family governance, and country governance. The development order of Pingtianxia is characterized by a pattern of cannibalism: the country eats everyone, everyone eats the small family, I eat the son, the son eats the grandson, and the tyranny of human relations ultimately leads to a cultural situation of killing children. This is what Sun Longji wants to expose. The bad nature of the Chinese people. The following parts transition from discussing individual people to discussing small groups and society. The fifth part is sectarianization and heteronomy. To analyze this kind of personality, we must understand the conscience of the Chinese people, which includes The heart of compassion, the heart of good and evil, the heart of resignation, the heart of right and wrong, the heart of right and wrong. All four are the heart. Therefore, Zhu Xi said that compassion is shy and shy, and the heart of giving in to right and wrong. The heart of compassion, which is embodied and humanized in Chinese culture, refers to sympathy for people like everyone else but not sympathy. The specific manifestation of individualization can even be said to be to obliterate the soul needs of the individual by caring for the same physical needs of everyone. We often hear around us that for my sake, you can do whatever you want. You can’t give me this face. Me? Or you need to know that I also want to save face and other similar words. In fact, this is also because of the personality of alienation and control rooted in people 's bones. Chinese people are proficient in getting along with others, but they are not good at dealing with their own world. Then you're good. According to Freud's theory, the first thing a person knows about controlling himself is the control of his own excretion. Western children will be asked to form their own excretion habits at a very young age. This is the control of themselves, while Chinese children are based on Parental concern When children are young, they have to urinate (refer to the stoker driver on the train). Parents control their children's excretion by whistling. The earliest control over their own body organs is lost in the two-person structure, let alone others. Slightly older Western children often say, " I am no longer a child, " but Chinese parents often say to their children, " You are still a child and you can't do anything. " In the West, children are called nurturing, and in China, children are called discipline. These are all very different as you grow older. Chinese people are unable to control themselves, such as spitting and littering, unconsciously picking their noses, shaking their hands uncontrollably, or suddenly making Bruce Lee-like movements with their feet in public places, etc. The Chinese people have a serious tendency towards know-how. However, In an environment where there is a two-person structure, Chinese people can show impressive generosity and politeness. For example, people in the circle can owe each other money and wave their hands to say forget it when the other party wants to return it, or mention it accidentally. When you meet again when you need something, the other party has already prepared it for you, or the other party would rather not have fun but accompany you to buy necessary things, etc. However, this kind of politeness is often in sharp contrast with the behavior of Chinese people outside the circle. For example, when taking a bus, Chinese people who don’t know each other push each other, as if they want to push others out of the bus before they give up. And if you suddenly meet an acquaintance, you will move the acquaintance to the front and buy tickets for the other person. Chinese people use the other party in this two-person structure to restrain themselves. To put it bluntly, they are visible to others. Behind the sincerity and face is a barren individuality and an alien personality. Part Six: The Coexistence of Childhood and Aging. The dual structure of Chinese society does give people a feeling of full humanity, but sometimes this feeling is just a kind of On the surface, under the rule of the two-person structure, Chinese people cannot establish a true self and must rely on others to define themselves. If you ask a Chinese why he wants to get rich, he will definitely say that one is to honor his ancestors and the other is to protect his descendants. I didn’t say it was for my own sake because saying so was inconsistent with the relationship between the two. I would be accused of being selfish and aloof. I once interviewed a female star in Hong Kong about whether she would tolerate premarital sex. She said, “I won’t do that. ” First, I want to reassure my parents. Second, I want to set a good example for young minors. She just doesn’t want to say that this kind of thing is not in line with my principles. Therefore, many Chinese people will never grow up compared to their parents when compressing their own existence. Children often have daughters in their thirties who have to act coquettishly to their father. On the other hand, they have to face the next generation and become their parents, so they have to have a sense of responsibility to the next generation at a young age, so they show their The trend of aging is that when Chinese people come to a strange environment and face strangers, they are either at a loss and fearful like a child, or they are like an old man pretending to be deep and distant from others. Chinese people do not know how to show themselves in an appropriate way. I don’t know how to use a romantic, humorous and calm attitude to integrate into this coexistence of childishness and aging, but it just squeezes out the youth of the Chinese people. Therefore, the Chinese people do not rebel or fight against the mainstream society and their predecessors. They are either children or It is old age but no youth. This kind of loss of oneself and not knowing how to manage oneself is particularly prominent in the marriage and love issues of Chinese people. This explains why so many people in China are keen to introduce marriage partners to others. There used to be a very popular TV program. It’s called If You Are the One and now there is the Queen Mother in Kaifeng. When people find out that an unmarried person is alone, they always feel a sense of pity, thinking that he is lonely and unable to take care of himself, so they must help him introduce someone to end his single state, and the Chinese are also used to it. Since excretion can be defined by others, the same is true for marriage, and so-called censorship breaks out again. Many Chinese people are often at a loss as to how to organize their pursuit of the opposite sex and do not know how to organize their pursuit of the opposite sex. Know how to please the other person but often frighten the other person. This has resulted in many abnormal love affairs and even tragedies. I recommend you to read the original book. The book lists some cases of sexual interaction that will definitely trigger your thinking. The young generation is often full of rebellion against society and This kind of rebellion is often the driving force for social progress, but the Chinese do not have this kind of rebellion, so social progress is always very slow. If you look at the history of youth growth in the world after World War II, you will find that the history of youth rebellion in China lags behind that of Western youth by more than ten years. In the West, there was the so-called Beat Generation in the 1960s, but in China, the 1960s was a top-down Cultural Revolution. It was only in the 1980s that young people in the West entered the mainstream of society, and China showed some signs of rebellion. Part 7: Circle Chinese Through the repeated relationship between two people, one circle after another is connected. Within the circle, people form a unique relationship. If an individual wants to become the center in a certain circle, he must suppress himself and suffer more. He cares about others and is meticulous. People who do this will often be criticized by everyone. It is believed that the benevolent and righteous people in the circle gain respect. Under such grammatical rules, the Chinese people's unique Machiavellian tactics are formed. Since everyone in the circle is on the same page, they can settle down in the circle, and they can also make themselves at ease by caring for others. Therefore, most Chinese people are not used to the social environment in the West because there is no such circle as China in the West. When Chinese people come to the United States, most of them first go to places like Chinatown and enter the Chinese circle in order to settle down. What the Chinese do abroad is also dedicated to To settle down instead of contacting the wider society, open yourself up and develop your own heart and soul. All the efforts of Chinese people in China throughout their lives are just to settle down, such as cars, houses, wives and children. As for overseas Chinese, they only do two things. The first thing is how to settle overseas, and the second thing is to make yourself feel at ease by caring about matters such as the construction of the motherland. Therefore, the grammatical rules of the Chinese circle are consistent with the two-person structure. This leads to the Chinese people’s attitude towards people outside the circle and even China. The attitude towards people outside the culture is contradictory. On the one hand, the Chinese treat strangers differently. Because only by suppressing outsiders can we show excessive concern for people within the circle, so China is full of internal books. The internal rules of the museum are full of indifference towards strangers and enthusiasm towards acquaintances. On the other hand, the Chinese are particularly humble towards people they want to get close to, especially strangers with some special status. They always lower themselves and give preferential treatment to others. Strangers are given special treatment. For example, many foreign students who come to China to study in China have prepared separate apartments for international students to live in air-conditioned rooms and do not allow Chinese people to enter to show preferential treatment. However, foreign students are not used to such groups. The discipline has repeatedly had conflicts with the school, and when it comes to treating international students abroad, they often just let them live with domestic students. Therefore, some international students laughed and said that in the past, Westerners put up signs in China saying that Chinese people and dogs were not allowed, but the Chinese people went through all kinds of hardships and finally finally It’s really pitiful to drive away the foreigners and now invite the foreigners back and not let the Chinese in. The recent special treatment of the Chinese railways that temporarily stopped to facilitate the flight of a few Japanese people is also an attack of the Chinese people’s humility towards the outside world. When I was preparing this article Another typical case that comes to mind is the Shandong University study companion system that broke out in 2019. The following background information is from Wikipedia. The Shandong University study companion incident refers to the fact that Shandong University has provided one-to-one study companions for international students since 2016. That is, an international student is paired with a Chinese study companion. In 2018, the study companion system of Shandong University was adjusted to allow one international student to be a study companion with three Chinese students. Among the actual number of applicants, there were 141 Chinese students, 47 of whom were mostly female. On July 6, 2019, Shandong University's study companion program caused controversy after being exposed by Weibo netizens. On July 12, 2019, Shandong University's official Weibo issued an apology statement saying that during the implementation of the study companion system, the review and control of the registration form were not strict. There are inappropriate options for making foreign friends of the opposite sex. We apologize to the public. The study companion system aims to promote cultural exchanges between China and foreign countries. There is no situation where one male international student corresponds to three female Chinese students. Shandong University will conduct a comprehensive evaluation of the study companion system. The subsequent impact of the incident in 2019 On October 31, at a campus recruitment promotion event held by Jinan High-tech Wanda Plaza at Shandong University, the host said that it was an honor to come to the beautiful Jinan Shandong University. The female students at Shandong University are all beautiful. I couldn’t help but sigh that the international students at Shandong University are so happy. This statement attracted criticism from all walks of life. After the incident, Jinan High-tech Wanda Plaza fired the host and apologized. People's Daily Online believes that providing study companions for international students is either inferior or sentimental. The person in charge of the International Cooperation and Exchange Department of the Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China said on July 20 that the Ministry of Education will further promote The management and services of international students in China and Chinese students are convergent. Full management of international students in China will be realized within this year. The Chinese people's indifference towards outsiders is the result of the two-person structure within the circle that supports them. The Chinese people's preferential treatment of outsiders is based on the use of the two-person structure to expect a response from the other party. Many times, foreigners think that Chinese people are very low-level and are indifferent to others. Foreigners do not understand the behavior of intentionally harassing their own compatriots in front of foreigners. Therefore, Chinese people have a kind of wishful thinking towards the outside world, thinking that since they are outside the circle and want to obtain resources from my circle, it is natural for them to do so. He should come to beg me or treat someone who wants to get close to me. He thinks that since I have been so good to him, he should naturally repay me and be good to me. This is why Chinese people are more cruel when they cheat acquaintances. However, this kind of Chinese people Grammar rules often don't work. Many foreigners don't appreciate the concern of the Chinese. They talk about business with the Chinese and don't understand that the Chinese want to treat guests to dinner before talking about business. Even in China, this situation often happens. It happens that many young people pursue their girlfriends and think that I have been good to her. Why hasn't she repaid me? So they turn to anger and revenge. At the same time, Chinese people are like children who have not grown up, wishful thinking and waiting for others to care about themselves. They know how to manage but not how to be romantic. When outsiders don't appreciate it, they think that others don't like them. They feel that this person is lonely and cold and not one of my race. His heart must be different. The Chinese people's reliance on the grammatical rules of their own two-person structure has also contributed to the development of China. Compression of Human Individuality Part 8 Eradicationism Chinese people have an expectation of their own interests in the group, that is, what I can get, and when I can’t get it, I don’t want others to get it. If others want to stand out in the group, they must obstruct it. To achieve the averageness of the group, when a person is too outstanding, others in the group will think that you have privileges, so they will treat you differently and no longer regard you as a person in the circle. If a person has any behavior that is different from others, others will treat you differently. Foreigners suppress you and treat you as an outsider. Therefore, Chinese people always dare not follow their own principles when doing things. They often depend on other people's expressions. For example, many girls want to wear skirts in summer but always dare not. A dresser would rather change into a dress at home, put on makeup, admire it for himself, and then put the dress away, but he would wait until others have worn it before he dares to wear it out to meet people and take photos. Chinese people also have this habit of always bringing beautiful clothes to the house. The reason why I put it on when taking pictures and then take it off after taking pictures is because Chinese people do not dare to express themselves and are afraid of being bulldozed by others. Even today, China still has a complex of hatred of the rich and a complex of common prosperity. This is still the remnant of bulldozerism. Acknowledging one's own limitations and not being able to acknowledge the strengths of others. What I fear is that I cannot form a mutual structure with others that can be compared with me, and I cannot find a place for myself. This is also due to the childishness of the Chinese people. Part 9: The Culture of Education and Upbringing. This is the deep structure of Chinese culture and even The whole country has become a kind of education, cultivation and culture. The social ideal of the Chinese people is to make everyone in the world have something to support. The problem is that everyone in the world is being supported. So who will support this world? Of course it is the government, so at this time the government and society will become a one-two structure. In China, the world is called the family. Government officials are called parent officials. The evaluation of officials is that they love the people like children. The government is responsible for educating the society. Good governments are often A government that provides support to everyone in society. Once everyone is supported and the government adopts a restrained attitude and does not take advantage of the masses, society will think that the government is paying attention to itself, and will show its loyalty to the government by paying attention to the government. It will not cause chaos, which reassures the government. On the other hand, the government must educate society, which is just like parents disciplining their children. It does not allow children to develop independently, but provides fixed patterns and paths for children to follow. Chinese parents are most worried about their children moving because of movement. It is related to chaos, so the ultimate goal of Chinese society is to prevent social unrest, which of course must be achieved through education and upbringing. Part 10: The static goals of Chinese society. Based on the above concepts, we can know that the operational goals of Chinese society are different from those of other national societies in the world. The operational goals are very different. Generally speaking, other societies generally have a dynamic operational goal. For example, Japan emphasizes that the people of the Sun God must carry out their national destiny, which has caused national tension among the Japanese people. Japan has always been chasing the footsteps of world powers. Fear of being surpassed by other countries. For example, the United Kingdom emphasizes that its country's operational goal is to dominate the world and become an empire on which the sun never sets. On the other hand, although China claims to have a history of civilization of 5, 000 years, the changes in the entire social structure are very small. When there is a conflict between the government and society that cannot support each other, society will tend to be chaotic. When the government and society are in harmony with each other and can settle down and feel at ease, society will be in a state of great order. When aggression depends on the entire Chinese society, it will happen. Only when Japan invaded China, for example, could the convergence of the entire Chinese people be mobilized to form a unified situation with the outside world. In fact, large and small circles within China are still functioning. Foreigners who are familiar with China will say that there is not just one China in China. There are many small circles within China. For example, after the Sino-Japanese War of 1891, the Nanyang Navy in Guangzhou went to negotiate with the Japanese and demanded the return of its warships. The reason was that the war was fought by the Beiyang Navy and the Japanese and had nothing to do with their Nanyang Navy. Another example is the Xinhai Navy. After the revolution, all parts of the country declared independence. However, on the other hand, Chinese circles lacked complete independence. This was related to the childish interdependence of the Chinese people, who always had to prove their existence through others. Therefore, in the 1930s of the 20th century, In the early 1990s, when the Chinese warlords were fighting each other, no warlords established a country. Instead, they had to destroy each other. This was also caused by the Chinese people's lack of independence and their tendency to eliminate each other. Therefore, Chinese society in the past 5, 000 years was boiled down to one goal, which was to suppress each other. To stop the people's hearts and make them know little and have few desires without chaos, society will not progress. Therefore, the goal of Chinese society is static, and this static state is caused by the human nature of the Chinese people and the deep structure of society. Mao Zedong was trying to break it. This millennium of static China has launched a cultural revolution from top to bottom, with subordinates opposing superiors and society putting pressure on the government. This is a real cultural revolution. Mao hopes to break the dual structure of Chinese society through such social activities and awaken China. People's personal consciousness stretches the dual structure of government and society to break the narrow circles through series. However, the complexity of the deep structure of Chinese culture far exceeds the expectations of everyone, including Mao. In the end, the Cultural Revolution led to the transformation of Chinese society. In the end, the crisis of humanity had to return to the deep structure of traditional Chinese culture through the efforts of Hua Guofeng and others. In addition to the above concepts and ideas, the author also analyzed the country, social economy, politics and other macro-environmental factors based on the deep structure of Chinese culture. This video would be too long to introduce any more. I suggest you read the original book. The free association time and hyperlinks in your brain that occur while reading will gain more insights than watching the video. In conclusion, this book uses insights into the deep structure of Chinese culture. Analysis provides us with a portal to reflect on our own hearts and opens up a process of introspection. It is not only a criticism of Chinese culture, but also teaches us how to analyze ourselves and the environment so as to think about problems more objectively and from multiple angles. The author in the new millennium It is written in the revised edition that it remains to be seen whether the grammatical rules of Chinese culture can create new sentences and chapters in the new situation. We also have reason to believe that even if Chinese culture has been a super-stable system for thousands of years, it will still be able to withstand the spurs of the times. Under the background of transformation and sublimation, in the face of criticism of Chinese culture, some opponents are controversial, and some Chinese people call cultural criticism self-abuse. Some people think that these criticisms are just criticism without construction, so criticism is meaningless. In fact, our ugliness comes from us not knowing whether our own ugliness can tolerate reflection and criticism of Chinese culture. It is a test of the development of Chinese culture. A criterion for tolerance and health. In this sense, I feel that there is not too much criticism of Chinese culture, but there is too little. Criticism of Chinese culture does not lie in whether the criticism is right or not, but in the consciousness and courage to face some of the dark sides of the mother culture. China's history has always been hurriedly turned over, but the problems have not been solved. The rich legacy is always wrapped up in the problems and is inherited forever. For example, the Cultural Revolution has affected the morality and human nature of the Chinese people, and it has inspired such dark and animalistic evils that are still there today. No real reflection has been obtained. No matter what, reflection and criticism are already constructive contributions to Chinese thought and culture. Thank you to those who have made efforts for reflection and criticism of Chinese culture. Even if Lu Xun was desperate and Bo Yang was angry and Sun Longji has turned around, the future will come. Whether Chinese culture can enter a new world situation depends on whether Chinese society can continue to open up and change. On the other hand, it also depends on how new young people develop. I hope everyone can become: an individual with independent thinking, physical and mental health, and a perfect personality. I look forward to working with you. See you again in the next detoxifying Chinese culture reading sharing. . .
