Timestamp: 2026-04-09T10:55:44.698963
Title: 太阳闯关记 - 黄仁勋在GTC 的演讲真的太燃了  揭开了Ai未来的新时代 老黄说不要紧盯模型本身了  抓住未来任何一个赛道，这辈子就起飞了  不看绝对会后悔！ 2041722763828985856
URL: https://x.com/dachaoren/status/2041801466197762179?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 2:15:23

Description:
这份文本是英伟达（NVIDIA）CEO 黄仁勋在 GTC 大会上的演讲实录。演讲核心围绕从“加速计算”到“生成式 AI 工厂”的范式转移，发布了 Vera Rubin 架构、Groq 技术集成、以及面向智能体的 Open Claw 策略。

---

### **PART 1. 结构化解构 (Structural Deconstruction)**

*   **核心论点 (Core Thesis):**
    计算机行业正在经历从“检索式计算”向“生成式 AI 工厂”的历史性转变。英伟达通过垂直整合（硬件、软件、网络、算法）与水平开放的架构，旨在成为全球 AI 基础设施的唯一标准，将“推理”转化为一种可以大规模量产的工业商品（Token）。

*   **证据基础 (Evidentiary Base):**
    *   **历史积淀：** CUDA 20 年的装机量（ flywheel 效应）。
    *   **性能数据：** Vera Rubin 架构在推理性能上比上一代提升 35 倍，10 年内计算能力提升 4000 万倍。
    *   **市场验证：** 与全球所有主要云服务商（AWS, Azure, Google, Oracle）及行业巨头（IBM, Dell, SAP）的深度集成。
    *   **技术突破：** 推出 MVLink 72、液体冷却技术、以及通过收购/合作引入的 Groq LPU 技术（解决低延迟推理）。

*   **逻辑架构 (The Warrant):**
    推理需求已到达拐点（Inference Inflection） $\rightarrow$ 智能体（Agentic AI）需要海量 Token $\rightarrow$ 传统的通用 CPU 计算已失效 $\rightarrow$ 只有通过“全栈协同设计”（从芯片到算法库如 cuDF/cuVS）才能实现最低的“每瓦 Token 成本” $\rightarrow$ 英伟达的“AI 工厂”是实现这一目标的唯一经济路径。

*   **陈述范围 (Stated Scope):**
    该论证适用于数据中心基础设施、企业级 IT 架构、主权 AI 云、以及物理机器人（Physical AI）领域，时间跨度展望至 2027 年及以后。

---

### **PART 2. 严苛但公平的审视 (Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review)**

*   **强力推演 (Steelman):**
    英伟达并非在卖“铲子”（芯片），而是在定义一种新的“电力工业”。通过将复杂的计算问题转化为 Token 的生产问题，并提供从底层铜缆到顶层智能体框架（Open Claw）的交钥匙方案，它实际上在构建一个任何竞争对手都无法通过单一芯片突破的生态壁垒。

*   **最薄弱环节 (Weakest Link):**
    **“万亿美金需求”的不可持续性假设。**
    > “到 2027 年，我看到至少 1 万亿美元的需求。”
    这一结论建立在“Token 需求将无限增长”且“Token 转化为收入的效率保持高位”的假设上。如果企业发现 AI 智能体的 ROI（投资回报率）无法覆盖昂贵的算力成本，或者 Token 的边际效用递减，这万亿级的资本开支将演变成巨大的泡沫。

*   **证据审计 (Evidence Audit):**
    黄仁勋提到的“10 年 4000 万倍性能提升”存在统计口径的诱导。这种提升包含了：硬件规模的扩大（从单卡到集群）、计算精度的牺牲（从 FP32 到 FP4）、以及特定算法的优化。这并非单纯的晶体管效率提升，而是通过“堆料”和“降准”实现的工程奇迹，掩盖了半导体物理极限（热力学第二定律）带来的增长放缓。

*   **隐藏前提 (Hidden Premises):**
    1.  **能源可获得性：** 默认全球电网和散热基础设施能够支撑数百个“吉瓦级（Gigawatt）工厂”的建设。
    2.  **架构单一性：** 假设 Transformer 及其变体仍将是未来 5-10 年的唯一主导算法，忽略了可能出现的、对显存带宽依赖更低的新型架构。

*   **盲区 (The Blind Side):**
    **“主权 AI”与地缘政治冲突。** 演讲中极力推崇“主权 AI”，但忽略了全球供应链的脆弱性。当计算资源成为核心国力时，出口管制和供应链脱钩可能让英伟达的“全球工厂”蓝图在非美市场迅速萎缩，而这是技术优化无法解决的。

*   **致命一问 (One Hit Kill):**
    如果未来 AI 模型的演进方向转向“小参数、高效率”或“端侧推理”，不再依赖于庞大的数据中心集群，英伟达这种为“万亿参数模型”设计的、极度重资产的“AI 工厂”模式是否会瞬间变成昂贵的过时遗产？

*   **如何定论 (What Would Settle It):**
    观察 2025-2026 年非科技行业（如制造业、零售业）在 AI 上的实际营收占比。如果 AI 带来的利润增长无法覆盖其支付给云厂商的算力费用，那么黄仁勋描述的“Token 经济”将面临崩塌。

---

### **PART 3. 核心架构概念图 (Mermaid Conceptual Map)**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    subgraph SG_Core["💎 核心战略：从计算平台到 AI 工厂"]
        A["<b>英伟达全栈愿景</b><br/>垂直整合 ↔ 水平开放"]
        style A fill:#76B900,stroke:#333,stroke-width:3px,color:#fff,font-weight:bold
    end

    subgraph SG_Hardware["🚀 硬件演进 (基础设施层)"]
        H1["<b>Vera Rubin 架构</b><br/>(35x 推理性能提升)"]
        H2["<b>MVLink 72</b><br/>(解决带宽瓶颈)"]
        H3["<b>Groq LPU 集成</b><br/>(极速 Token 生成)"]
        H4["<b>液冷/CPO 技术</b><br/>(突破物理极限)"]
        H1 & H2 & H3 & H4 --> H_Out["<b>AI Factory (吉瓦级工厂)</b>"]
    end

    subgraph SG_Software["💾 软件与算法 (动力层)"]
        S1["<b>CUDA-X 库</b><br/>(cuDF / cuVS)"]
        S2["<b>NemoTron 模型</b><br/>(开源前沿模型)"]
        S3["<b>Omniverse / DSX</b><br/>(数字孪生设计工厂)"]
        S1 & S2 & S3 --> S_Out["<b>算法激活硬件能力</b>"]
    end

    subgraph SG_Agentic["🤖 智能体革命 (应用层)"]
        direction TB
        A1["<b>Open Claw (智能体 OS)</b><br/>(类比 HTML/Linux 的爆发)"]
        A2["<b>Nemo Claw (企业级参考)</b><br/>(安全/隐私/治理)"]
        A3["<b>Token 经济</b><br/>(Token 是新商品/生产力)"]
        A1 --> A2 --> A3
    end

    subgraph SG_Review["🚩 批判性审视 (Hostile Review)"]
        R1["<b>能源墙</b><br/>(电力供应能否跟上万亿需求?)"]
        R2["<b>泡沫风险</b><br/>(Token 产出是否具备实际 ROI?)"]
        R3["<b>架构锁定</b><br/>(过度依赖 Transformer 路径)"]
        R4["<b>物理欺骗</b><br/>(4000万倍性能包含规模扩张而非效率)"]
    end

    A --> SG_Hardware
    A --> SG_Software
    SG_Hardware & SG_Software --> SG_Agentic
    
    %% 批判性连接
    H_Out -.-> R1
    A3 -.-> R2
    S2 -.-> R3
    H1 -.-> R4

    %% 样式定义
    classDef mainNode fill:#FFFACD,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:2px,color:#333
    classDef techNode fill:#E1F5FE,stroke:#01579B,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#01579B
    classDef appNode fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#2E7D32,stroke-width:1.5px,color:#1B5E20
    classDef critNode fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#C62828,stroke-width:2px,color:#B71C1C

    class H1,H2,H3,H4,H_Out,S1,S2,S3,S_Out techNode
    class A1,A2,A3 appNode
    class R1,R2,R3,R4 critNode

    style SG_Hardware fill:#F0F4C3,stroke:#AFB42B,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Software fill:#E1F5FE,stroke:#0288D1,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Agentic fill:#DCEDC8,stroke:#689F38,stroke-width:2px
    style SG_Review fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#EF5350,stroke-width:2px
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
I just want to remind you this is a tech conference. All these people lining up so early in the morning, all of you in here, it's great to see you. GTC. GTC, we're going to talk about technology. We're going to talk about platforms. And Vinnie has three platforms. You think that we mostly talk about one of them. It's related to CUDAX. Our systems is another platform. And now we have a new platform called AI Factories. We're going to talk about all of them. And most importantly, we're going to talk about ecosystems. But before I start, let me thank our pre-game show hosts. I thought they did a great job. Sarah Go of Conviction. Alfred Lim, Sequoia Capital, NVIDIA's first venture capitalist. Gavin Baker, NVIDIA's first major institutional investor. These three people are deep in technology deep in what's going on. And of course, they have just a really broad reach of technology ecosystem. And then of course, all of the VIPs that I hand selected to join us today are all star team. I want to thank all of you for that. I also want to thank all the companies that are here. NVIDIA, as you know, is a platform company. We have technology. We have our platforms. We have rich ecosystem. And today, there are probably 100% of the $100 trillion of industry here. 450 companies sponsored this event. I want to thank you. A thousand technical sessions, 2,000 speakers. This conference is going to cover every single layer of the five layer cake of artificial intelligence from lamp, power, and shell, the infrastructure, to chips, to the platforms, the models, and of course, the most important and ultimately what's going to get this industry taken off is all of the applications. What it all began, it all began here. This is the 20th anniversary of CUDA. We've been working on CUDA for 20 years. For 20 years, we've been dedicated to this architecture, this revolutionary invention, SIMT, single instruction, multi-threaded, writing scalar code could spawn off into multi-threaded application, much, much easier to program than SIMD. We recently added tiles so that we could help people program tensor cores and the structures of mathematics that are so foundational to artificial intelligence today. There's lots of tools and compilers and frameworks and libraries. In open source, there's a couple of hundred thousand public projects. CUDA literally is integrated into every single ecosystem. This chart basically describes a hundred percent of NVIDIA's strategies. You've been watching me talk about this slide from the very beginning. And ultimately, the single hardest thing to achieve is the thing on the bottom, installed base. It has taken us 20 years to now have built up hundreds of millions of GPUs and computing systems around the world that run CUDA. We are in every cloud, we're in every computer company. We serve just about every single industry. The install base of CUDA is the reason why the flywheel is accelerating. The install base is what attracts developers who then creates new algorithms that achieves a breakthrough. For example, deep learning. There are so many others. Those breakthroughs leads to entirely new markets which builds new ecosystems around them with other companies that join, which creates a larger install base. This flywheel, this flywheel, is now accelerating. The number of downloads of NVIDIA libraries is incredibly accelerating. It's at a very large scale and growing faster than ever. This flywheel is what makes this computing platform able to sustain so much applications, so many new breakthroughs. But most importantly, it also enables these infrastructures to have extraordinarily useful life. And the reason for that is very obvious. There are so many applications that you can run on NVIDIA CUDA. We support the entire every single phase of the AI lifecycle. We address every single data processing platform. We accelerate scientific, principled solvers of all different kinds. And so the application reach is so great that once you install NVIDIA GPUs, the useful life of it is incredibly high. It is also one of the reasons why Ampere, that we shipped them some six years ago, the pricing of Ampere in the cloud is going up. And so all of that is made possible fundamentally because the install base is high, the flywheel is high, the developer reach is great. And when all of that happens, and we continuously update our software, the computing cost declines. The combination of accelerated computing speeding up applications tremendously. Meanwhile, as we continue to nurture and continue to update software over its life, not only do you get the first time pop, you get the continuous cost reduction of accelerated computing over time. And we're willing to nurture, willing to support every single one of these GPUs in the world because they're all architecturally compatible. We're willing to do so because the install base is so large, if we release a new optimization, it benefits millions. This applies to everybody in the world. This combination of dynamics is what makes the NVIDIA architecture expand its reach, accelerating its growth at the same time driving down computing cost, which ultimately encourages new growth. So CUDA is at the center of it. But our journey, the CUDA actually started 25 years ago. GeForce. I know how many of you grew up with GeForce. GeForce is NVIDIA's greatest marketing campaign. We attract future customers starting long before you could afford to pay for it yourself. Your parents paid. Your parents paid. Your parents paid for you to be NVIDIA customers. And every single year, they paid up year after year after year until someday you became an amazing computer scientist and became a proper customer, a proper developer. But this is the house that GeForce made. Twenty-five years ago, we started our journey which led to CUDA. Twenty-five years ago, we invented the programmable shader, a perfectly unobvious invention to make an accelerator programmable, the world's first programmable accelerator, the pixel shader. Twenty-five years ago, that led us to explore further and further twenty years later, five years later, the invention of CUDA. One of the biggest investments that we made, and we couldn't afford it at the time, and to consume the vast majority of our company's profits, was to take CUDA on the backs of GeForce to every single computer. We dedicated ourselves to create this platform because we felt so strongly about its potential. But ultimately, the company's dedication to it, despite the hardships in the beginning, believing in every single day for thirteen generations or twenty years, we now have CUDA installed everywhere. The pixel shader led to, of course, the revolution of GeForce. And then ten years ago, we introduced, about ten years ago, what is it, eight years ago, we introduced RTX, a complete redesign of our architecture for the modern era of computer graphics. GeForce brought CUDA to the world. GeForce, therefore, enabled Alex Krushowski and Ilya Suskever and Jeff Hinton and Drew Aang and so many others to discover that the GPU could be their friend in accelerating deep learning. It started the Big Bang of AI. Ten years ago, we decided that we would fuse programmable shading and introduce two new ideas, Ray Tracing, hardware Ray Tracing, which is incredibly hard to do, and a new idea at the time, imagine, about ten years ago, we thought that AI would revolutionize computer graphics. Just as GeForce brought AI to the world, AI is now going to go back and revolutionize how computer graphics is done altogether. Well, today, I'm going to show you something about the future. This is our next generation of graphics technology. We call it neuro rendering, the fusion, the fusion of 3D graphics and artificial intelligence. This is DLSS5. Take a look at it. Is that incredible? Computer graphics comes to life. Now what do we do? We've confused controllable 3D graphics, the ground truth of virtual worlds, the structured data, remember this word, the structured data of virtual worlds, of generated worlds. We combine 3D graphics, structured data with generative AI, probabilistic computing. One of them is completely predictive, the other one probabilistic, yet highly realistic. We combine these two ideas, control through structured data, control perfectly and yet generating at the same time. And as a result, the content is beautiful, amazing, as well as controllable. This concept of fusing structured information and generative AI will repeat itself in one industry after another industry, after another industry. Structured data is the foundation of trustworthy AI. Well, this is going to scare you a little bit. I'm going to flip the slide and don't gasp. So we're going to go through this schematic for the rest of the time. This is my best slide. Every time I ask the team, what's my best slide? Repeatedly this was it. They say, don't do it, Jensen. Don't do it. I said, no. This seats are free for some of you. So this is your price of mission. So this is structured data. You've heard of it. SQL, Spark, Pandas, Velox, some of these really, really important, very large platforms, Snowflake, Databricks, EMR, Amazon EMR, Azure, Fabric, Google Cloud, BigQuery. All of these platforms are processing data frames. These data frames are giant spreadsheets and they hold all of life's information. This is the structured data, the ground truth of business. This is the ground truth of enterprise computing. Well, now we're going to have AI use structured data and we better accelerate the living daylights out of it. It used to be okay and we would, you know, of course, we would accelerate structured data so that we could do more. We could do it more cheaply. We could do it more frequently per day and keep the company running at a much more synchronized way. However, in the future, what's going to happen is these data structures are going to be used by AI and AI is going to be much, much faster than us. Future agents are going to use structured databases as well. And then, of course, the unstructured database, the generative database, this database represents the vast majority of the world. Vector databases, unstructured data, PDFs, videos, speeches, all of the world's information, about 90% of what's generated every single year is unstructured data. Until now, this data has been completely useless to the world. We read it, we put it into our file system and that's it. Unfortunately, we can't query it. We can't search for it. It's hard to do that. And the reason for that is because there's no easy indexing of unstructured data. You have to understand its meaning, its purpose. And so now we have AI do that. Just as AI was able to solve multi-modality perception, you can, and understanding, you can use that same technology, multi-modality perception and understanding to go read a PDF, to understand its meaning. From that meaning embedded into a larger structure that we can search into, we can query into. NVIDIA created two foundational libraries. Just like we created RTX for 3D graphics, we created QDF for data frames, structured data. We created QVS for vector stores, semantic data, unstructured data, AI data. These two platforms are going to be two of the most important platforms in the future. Super excited to see its adoption throughout the network, this complicated network of the world's data processing systems. And the reason for that is because data processing has been around a long time and therefore so many different companies and platforms and services. It has taken us a long time to integrate deeply into this ecosystem. I'm super proud of the work that we're doing here. And then today, we're announcing several of them. IBM, the inventor of SQL, one of the most important domain specific languages of all time, is accelerating Watson X data with QDF. Let's take a look at it. 60 years ago, IBM introduced the system 360. The first modern platform for general purpose computing, launching the computing era. Then SQL, a declarative language to query data without requiring the computer to be instructed step by step. And the data warehouse, each the foundations of modern enterprise computing. Today, IBM and NVIDIA are reinventing data processing for the era of AI by accelerating IBM Watson X.data SQL engines with NVIDIA GPU computing libraries. Data is the ground truth that gives AI context and meaning. AI needs rapid access to massive data sets. Today's CPU data processing systems can't keep up. Nestle makes thousands of supply chain decisions every day. Their order to cache data mart aggregates every supply, order and delivery of it. Because global operations in 185 countries. On CPUs, Nestle refreshed the data mart a few times a day. With accelerated Watson X.data running on NVIDIA GPUs, Nestle can run the same workload five times faster at 83% lower cost. The next computing platform has arrived. Accelerated computing for the era of AI. NVIDIA accelerates data processing in the cloud. We also accelerate data processing on prem. As you know, Dell is the world leading computer systems maker and they also are one of the world's leading storage providers. And they worked with us to create the Dell AI data platform that integrates QDF and QVS to create an accelerated data platform well for the era of AI. And this is an example of what they did with NTT data. Huge speed up. This is Google Cloud and Google Cloud as you know. We've been working with Google Cloud for a very long time. We accelerate Google's vertex AI. We now accelerate BigQuery, really important framework and really important platform. And this is an example of our work together with Snapchat where we reduced their cost of computing by nearly 80%. When you accelerate data processing, when you accelerate computing, you get the benefit of speed, you get the benefit of scale. But most importantly, you also get the benefit of cost. And so all of those come together as one. It was originally called Moore's Law. Moore's Law was about getting performance doubling every couple of years. It's another way of saying. So long as the price remains about the same and most computers remain about the same, you're also getting twice the performance every year or you're reducing the cost of computing every single year. While Moore's Law has run out of steam, we need a new approach. Accelerated computing allows us to take these giant leaps forward. And as you will see later, because we continue to optimize the algorithms, and NVIDIA is an algorithm company, as we continue to optimize the algorithms, and because our reach is so large and our install base is so large, we can reduce the computing cost, increasing the scale, increasing the speed for everybody continuously. This is Google Cloud. You can see this pattern I just mentioned. I just wanted to show you three versions of it. NVIDIA built the Accelerated Computing platform. Has a bunch of libraries on top. I gave you three examples. RTX is one of them. QDF is another QVS, and I'll show you a few more. These libraries sit on top of our platform. But ultimately, we integrate into the world's cloud services, into the world's OEMs, and together, and other platforms that I'll show you, together, we're able to reach the world. This pattern, NVIDIA, Google Cloud, Snapchat, will repeat over and over again, and it kind of looks like this. And so this is one example, NVIDIA with Google Cloud. We accelerated vertex AI. We accelerated BigQuery. We accelerated, I'm super proud of the work that we've done with Jax and XLA. We are incredible on PyTorch. We're the only accelerator in the world that's incredible on PyTorch and incredible on Jax and XLA. And the customers that we support, the base tens, the crowd strikes, Puma, Salesforce, they're not our customers, but they're customers, developers of ours, that we've integrated the NVIDIA technologies into that we can then land on the clouds. Our relationship with cloud service providers are essentially us bringing customers to them. We integrate our libraries, we accelerate workloads, and we land those customers in the clouds. And so as you can see, most of our cloud service providers love working with us, and they're always asking us to land the next customer on their cloud. And I just want to let you know, there are a lot of customers. We're going to accelerate everybody. And so there will be lots and lots of customers will be landing your cloud, just be patient with us. So this is Google Cloud, this is AWS. We've been working with AWS a long time. And one of the things I'm super excited about this year is we're going to bring OpenAI to AWS. So it's going to drive enormous consumption of cloud computing at AWS, it's going to expand the reach and expand the compute of OpenAI. And as you know, they are completely compute constrained. And so AWS, we accelerate EMR, we accelerate SageMaker, we accelerate BitRock, and NVIDIA is integrated really deeply into AWS. They were our first cloud partner, Microsoft Azure. NVIDIA's A100 supercomputer was the first one we built was for NVIDIA. The first one we installed was at Azure. That led to the big successful partnership with OpenAI. But we've been working with Azure for quite a long time. We accelerate Azure Cloud. Now it's their AI Foundry we partner deeply with. We accelerate Bing Search. We work with them on Azure regions. This is one of the areas that is incredibly important. As we continue to expand AI throughout the world, one of the capabilities that we offer is confidential computing. That in confidential computing, you want to make sure that even the operator cannot see your data. Even the operator cannot touch or see your models. Confidential computing and VS GPUs as the first ones in the world to do that is now able to support confidential computing and protected deployment of these very valuable OpenAI models and anthropic models throughout clouds and different regions and all because of our confidential computing. Confidential computing is super important. Here's an example where we have different customers that we work with. Synopsis, a great partner of ours, we're accelerating all of their EDA and CAU workflows. We landed at Microsoft Azure. We were Oracle's first AI customer. Most people would have thought we were their first supplier. We were their first supplier also, but we were their first AI customer. I'm quite proud of the fact that I explained AI clouds to Oracle for the first time and we were their first customer since then they've really taken off. We've landed a whole bunch of our partners there, core cohere and fireworks and of course very famously OpenAI. A great partnership with CoreWeave, they're the world's first AI native cloud, a company that was built with only one singular purpose to provision, to host GPUs as the area of accelerated computing showed up and to host for AI clouds. They've got some fantastic customers and they're growing incredibly. One of the platforms that I'm quite excited about is Palantir and Dell. The three of our companies have made it possible to stand up a brand new type of AI platform, the Palantir Ontology platform and AI platform and we could stand up these platforms in any country, in any air gapped region, completely on-prem, completely on site, completely in the field. AI could be deployed literally everywhere. Without our confidential computing capability, without our ability to build the end-to-end system as well as offer the entire accelerated computing at AI stack from data processing, whether it's vectors or structures, all the way to AI, it wouldn't have been possible. I wanted to show you these examples. This is our special working relationship with the world's cloud service providers and many, well all of them are here and I get the benefit of seeing them during boot tour and it's just so incredibly exciting. I just want to thank all of you for the hard work. What NVIDIA has done is this and you're going to see this theme over and over again. NVIDIA is vertically integrated. The world's first vertically integrated but horizontally open company and the reason that's necessary is very simple. Accelerated computing is not a chip problem. Accelerated computing is not a systems problem. Accelerated computing has a missing word. We just never say it anymore. Application acceleration. If I could make a computer run everything faster, that's called a CPU. But that's run out of steam. The only way for us to accelerate applications going forward and continue to bring tremendous speed up, tremendous cost reduction is through application or domain specific acceleration. I dropped that phrase in the front and therefore it just became accelerated computing. That is the reason why NVIDIA has to be library after library, domain after domain, vertical after vertical. We are a vertically integrated computing company. There is no other way. We have to understand the applications. We have to understand the domain. We have to understand fundamentally the algorithms and we have to figure out how to deploy the algorithm in whatever scenario it wants to be deployed, whether it's a data center, cloud, on-prem at the edge, or in a robotic system. All of those computing systems are different and finally the systems and chips. We are vertically integrated. What makes it incredibly powerful and the reason why you saw all the slides is because NVIDIA is horizontally open. We work and integrate NVIDIA's technology into whatever platform you would like us to integrate into. We offer you the software, we offer you libraries, we integrate with your technology so that we can bring accelerated computing to everybody in the world. Well, this GTC is really a great demonstration of that. Most of the time, you'll see me talk about these verticals and I'll use some examples. But in every single case, where there is automotive, by the way, financial services, the largest percentage of attendees at this GTC is from the financial services industry. I know. I'm hoping it's developers, not traders. Guys. Here's one thing I wanted to say. And so in the audience, represents NVIDIA's ecosystem upstream of our supply chain and downstream of our supply chain. We think about our supply chain upstream and downstream. And it's just so exciting that our entire upstream supply chain, this last year, irrespective of whether you're a 50-year-old company, we have 70-year-old companies, we have 150-year-old company who are now part of NVIDIA supply chain and partnering with us, either upstream or downstream. And last year, you had your record year. Did you not? Congratulations. We're on to something here. This is the beginning of something very, very big. And so if you look at accelerated computing, we've now set the computing platform. But in order for us to activate those computing platforms, we need to have domain-specific libraries that solve very important problems in each one of the verticals that we address. You see us addressing every single one of this. Autonomous vehicles, our reach, our breadth, our impact, incredible. We have a track on that, financial services, as I just mentioned. Climate trading is going from classical machine learning with human feature engineering, the quant did that, to now supercomputers studying massive amounts of data, discovering insight and discovering patterns by itself. And so this is going through its deep learning and its transformer moment. Healthcare is going through their CHAP-GPT moment, some really exciting work that we're there. We have a great keynote track here. We have a great keynote track, Kimberly Pausden, a great keynote track for healthcare. We're talking about AI physics or AI biology for drug discovery, AI agents for customer service and support of diagnosis and diagnosis. And of course, physical AI, robotic systems. All these different vectors of AI have different platforms that NVIDIA provides. Well, we are completely resetting and starting the largest build out of human history. And most of the world's industries, building AI factories, building chip plants, building computer plants are represented here today. Media and entertainment, gaming, of course, real-time AI platform so that we could translation and broadcast support and live games and live video. Enormous amount of it will be augmented with AI. We have a platform called Holiscan, quantum. There are 35 different companies here building with us the next generation of quantum GPU hybrid systems. Retail and CPG using NVIDIA for supply chain, creating agent shopping systems, AI agents for customer support. A lot of work being done here. $35 trillion industry, robotics $50 trillion industry and manufacturing. NVIDIA has been working in this area for a decade now, building three computers, the fundamental computers necessary to build robotic systems. We are integrated with working with literally every single company that we know of building robots. We have 110 robots here at the show and then telecommunications. Not as large as the world's IT industry about $2 trillion. We see, of course, base stations everywhere. It's one of the world's infrastructures. It was the infrastructure of the last generation of computing. That infrastructure is going to get completely reinvented. And the reason for that is very simple. That base station, which is, it does one thing, which is base station, is going to be an AI infrastructure platform in the future. AI will run at the edge. So lots of great discussion there. And our platform there is called Ariel, our AI ran. Big partnership with Nokia, big partnership with T-Mobile and many others. At the core of our business, everything that I just mentioned, computing platforms, but very importantly, our CUDAX libraries. Our CUDAX libraries is the algorithm, the algorithms that NVIDIA invents. We are an algorithm company. That's what makes us special. That's what makes it possible for me to be able to go into every single one of these industries, imagine the future and have the world's best computer scientists describe and solve problems, refactor it, re-express it, and turn it into a library. We have so many. I think we have, at this show, we are announcing 100 libraries, 70 libraries, maybe 40 models. And that's just at the show. We're updating these all the time. We're updating them all the time. The libraries is the crown jewels of our company. It is what makes it possible for that platform, the computing platform, to be activated in service of solving a problem, making impact. One of the biggest, one of the most important libraries that we ever created, CU-DNN. CUDA-Deep Neural Networks. It completely revolutionized artificial intelligence, caused a big bang of modern AI. Let me show you a short video about CUDAX. 20 years ago, we built CUDA, a single architecture for accelerated computing. Today, we've reinvented computing. A thousand CUDAX libraries helped developers make breakthroughs in every field of science and engineering. CU opt for decision optimization. CULitho for computational lithography. CUDSS for direct-spar solvers. CU equivariance for geometry-aware neural networks. Aerial for AI RAM. Warp for differentiable physics. Parabricks for genomics. At their foundation, our algorithms. And they are beautiful. Everything you saw was a simulation. Some of it was principal solvers. Real physics solvers. Some of it was AI surrogates, AI physical models, and some of it was physical AI robotics models. Everything was simulated. Nothing was animated. Nothing was articulated. Everything was completely simulated. That is what fundamentally NVIDIA does. It is through the connection of understanding of the algorithms with our computing platforms that were able to open up to unlock these opportunities. NVIDIA is a vertically integrated computing company with open, horizontal integration with the world. So that's CUDAX. Well, just now you saw a whole bunch of companies. You saw Walmart and Los L'Oreal and incredible companies, established companies, JP Morgan and Roshan. These are companies that define society to today. Toyota is here. These are some of the largest companies in the world. It is also true that there's a whole bunch of companies you've never heard of. These are companies, we call them AI Natives. A whole bunch of small companies. This list is gigantic. This is just a little tiny bit of it. I couldn't decide whether to show you more or show you less. So I made it so that you couldn't see any. Nobody's feelings are hurt. However, inside this list are a bunch of brand new companies. They're companies like, for example, you might have heard a couple of them open AI and Tropic, but there's a whole bunch of others. There's a whole bunch of others. They serve different verticals. Everything happened in the last two years, particularly this last year. We've been working with the AI Natives for a long time. This last year, it just skyrocketed. I'll explain to you why it happened. This industry is skyrocketed $150 billion of investment into venture investment, into startups, the largest in human history. This is also the first time that the scale of the investments went from millions of dollars, tens of millions of dollars, to hundreds of millions of dollars, and billions of dollars. The reason for that is this is the first time in history that every single one of these companies needs compute and lots and lots of it. They need tokens, lots and lots of it. They're either going to create and build and create tokens and generate tokens, or they're going to integrate, add value to tokens that are available, created by Enthropic and Open AI and others. This industry is different in so many different ways, but the one thing that is very clear, the impact that they're making, the incredible value that they're delivering already, is quite tangible. AI Natives, all because we reinvented computing. Just like during the PC revolution, a whole bunch of new companies were created, just as during the internet revolution, a whole bunch of companies were created and a mobile cloud, a whole bunch of companies were created, each one of them had their own standards. We're talking about one of the major standards that just happened, incredibly important. This generation, we also have our own large number of very, very special companies. We reinvented computing. It stands to reason there's going to be a whole new crop of really important companies, consequential companies for the future of the world. The Googles, the Amazons, the Metas, consequential companies that have come as a result of the last computing platform shift. We are now at the beginning of a new platform shift. What happened in the last couple of years? Well, we've been working on deep learning and working on AI, the big bang of modern AI, we were right there at the spot and we've been advancing this field for quite some time. But why the last two years? What happened in the last two years? Well, three things. Chat GPT, of course, started the generative AI era. It's able to not just understand, perceive and understand. It's able to also translate and generate generation of unique content. I showed you the fusion of generative AI with computer graphics and it brought computer graphics to life. You guys, everybody in the world should be using chat GPT. I know I use it every single morning. I used the planning this morning. So chat GPT was the generative AI era. The second, by the way, generative computing versus the way we used to do computing, it's generative AI is a capability of software, but it has profoundly changed how computing is done. Computing used to be retrieval based. Now it's generative. Keep that thought in mind when I talk about certain things and you'll realize why it is that everything that we do is going to change how computers are architected, how computers are provided, how computers are going to be built out, and what is the meaning of computing altogether? generative AI, 2023, end of 22, 2023. The next reasoning AI, 01, which and then took off with 03, reasoning allowed it to reflect, allows it to think to itself, allowed it to plan, breakdown problems and decompose a problem it couldn't understand into steps or parts that it could understand. It could ground itself on research, 01 made generative AI trustworthy and grounded on truth. That caused chat GPT to simply took off. And that was a very, very big moment. The amount of input tokens that was necessary in order to produce and the amount of output tokens generated in order to reason, the model was a little bit larger. Of course, you could have much larger models. The model 01 was a little bit larger, not much larger, but it's input token usage for context and it's output token for thinking, increase the amount of computation tremendously. Then came Cloud Code, the first agentic model. It was able to read files, code, compile it, test it, evaluate it, go back and iterate on it. Cloud Code has revolutionized software engineering as all of you know. A hundred percent of NVIDIA is using a combination of, oftentimes all three of them, Cloud Code, CodeX and cursor all over NVIDIA. There's not one software engineer today who is not assisted by one or many AI agents helping them code. Cloud Code completely revolutionizes the new inflection and for the first time, you don't ask AI what, where, when, how. You ask it, create, do, build, you ask it to use tools, take your context, read files, it's able to agentically break down a problem, reason about it, reflect on it, it's able to solve problems and actually perform tasks. An AI that was able to perceive became an AI that could generate, an AI that could generate became an AI that could reason, an AI that could reason now became an AI that can actually do work, very productive work. The amount of computation in the last two years, we know that everybody in this room knows the computing demand for NVIDIA GPUs off the charts. Spot pricing is skyrocketing, you couldn't find a GPU if you tried and yet in the meantime, we're shipping GPUs out. Incredible amounts of it and demand just keeps on going up. There's a reason for that. This fundamental inflection. Finally, AI is able to do productive work and therefore the inflection point of inference has arrived. AI now has to think, in order to think it has to inference. AI now has to do, in order to do, it has to inference. AI has to read, in order to do so, it has to inference. It has to reason, it has to inference. Every part of AI, every time it has to think, it has to reason, it has to do, it has to generate tokens, it has to inference. It's way past training now. It's in the field of inference. The inference inflection has arrived. At the time when the amount of tokens, the amount of compute necessary, increased by roughly 10,000 times. When I combine these two, the fact that since the last two years, the computing demand of the work has gone up by 10,000 times. The amount of usage has probably gone up by 100 times. People have heard me say, I believe that computing demand has increased by 1 million times in the last two years. It is the feeling that we all have. It is the feeling every startup has. It's the feeling that OpenAI has. It's the feeling that anthropic has. If they could just get more capacity, they could generate more tokens, their revenues would go up. More people could use it. The more advanced, the smarter the AI could become. We are now at that positive flywheel system. We have reached that moment. The inference inflection has arrived. Last year, at this time, I said that where I stood at that moment in time, we saw about $500 billion. We saw $500 billion of very high confidence demand and purchase orders for Blackwell and Rubin through 2026. I said that last year. I don't know if you guys feel the same way, but $500 billion is an enormous amount of revenue. Not one impressed. I know why you're not impressed because all of you had record years. Well, I'm here to tell you that right now we're I stand a few short months after GTC DC. One year after last GTC, right here where I stand, I see through 2027 at least $1 trillion. Now does it make any sense? And that's what I'm going to spend the rest of the time talking about. In fact, we are going to be short. I am certain computing demand will be much higher than that. And there's a reason for that. So the first thing is we did a lot of work in the last year. Of course, as you know, 2025 was NVIDIA's year of inference. We wanted to make sure that not only were we good at training and post-training, that we were incredibly good at every single phase of AI. So that the investments that were made, investments made in our infrastructure could scale out for as long as they would like to use it. And the useful life of NVIDIA's infrastructure would be long and therefore the cost would be incredibly low. The longer you could use it, the lower the cost. There's no question in my mind. NVIDIA systems are the lowest cost infrastructure you could get for AI infrastructure in the world. The first part was last year was all about AI for inference. And it drove this inflection point. Simultaneously, we were very pleased last year that anthropic has come to NVIDIA, that MSL, MetaSL, has chosen NVIDIA. And meanwhile, meanwhile, and as a collection, as a group, this represents one-third of the world's AI compute, open source models. Open source models have reached near the frontier and it is literally everywhere. And NVIDIA, as you know, today, we're the only platform in the world today that runs every single domain of AI across every single one of these AI models in language and biology and computer graphics, computer vision, and speech, proteins and chemicals, robotics and otherwise, edge or cloud, any language, NVIDIA's architecture is fungible for all of that and we're incredible for all of that. That allows us to be the lowest cost, the highest confidence platform. Because when you're building these systems, as I mentioned, a trillion dollars is an enormous amount of infrastructure. You have to have complete confidence that the trillion dollars you're putting down will be utilized, would be performance, would be incredibly cost effective, and have useful life for as long as you could see. That infrastructure investment you could make on NVIDIA, you could make with complete confidence. We have now proven that. It is the only infrastructure in the world that you could go anywhere in the world and build with complete confidence. You want to put it in any of the clouds, we're delighted by that. You want to put it on prem, we're happy about that. You want to put it in any country anywhere, we're delighted to support you. We are now a computing platform that runs all of AI. Now our business already starting to show that 60% of our business is hyperscalers, the top five hyperscalers. However, even within the top five hyperscalers, some of it is internal AI consumption. The internal AI consumption really important work like Rexis is moving from recommender systems of tables and collaborative filtering and content filtering, it's moving towards deep learning and large language models. Search moving to deep learning, large language models. Almost all of these different hyperscale workloads are now moving, shifting towards a workload that NVIDIA GPUs are incredibly good at. But on top of that, because we work with every AI lab, because we work with every accelerate AI model, and because we have a large ecosystem of AI natives that we work with, that we can bring to the clouds that investment no matter how large, no matter how quick, that compute will be consumed. And that represents 60% of our business. The other 40% is just everywhere. Personal clouds, sovereign clouds, enterprise, industrial, robotics, edge, big systems, super computing systems, small servers, enterprise servers, the number of systems, incredible. The diversity of AI is also its resilience. The span of reach of AI is its resilience. There is no question this is not a one app technology. This is now fundamental. This is absolutely a new computing platform shift. Well, our job is to continue to advance the technology. And one of the most important things that I mentioned last year was last year was our year of inference. We dedicated everything. We took a giant chance and reinvented while Hopper was at its prime and it was just cooking. We decided that the Hopper architecture, the MV link by eight, had to be taken to the next level. We completely re-architected the system, disaggregated the computing system altogether and created MV link 72. The way that it's built, the way it's manufactured, the way it's programmed, completely changed. Mace Blackwell, MV link 72 was a giant bet. And it wasn't easy for anybody and many of my partners here in the room, I want to thank all of you for the hard work that you guys did. Thank you. MV link 72, MVFP4, not just Fp4 precision, Fp4 is a whole different type of tensor core and computational unit. We've demonstrated now that we can inference MVFP4 without loss of precision but gigantic boost in performance and energy efficiency. We've also been able to use MVFP4 for training. So MV link 72, MVFP4, the invention of Dynamo, tensor RTL L L M, a whole bunch of new algorithms. We even built a supercomputer to help us optimize kernels and help us optimize our complete stack we call a DGX cloud. We invested billions of dollars of super computing capability help us create the kernels, the software that made inference possible. Well, the results all came together and people told, people used to tell me but Jensen inference is so easy. Inference is the ultimate hard. Inference is ultimate hard. It is also ultimate important because it drives your revenues. And so this is the outcome. This is from similar analysis. This is the largest, most comprehensive sweep of AI inference that has ever been done. And what you see here on the left on this side is tokens per watt. Tokens per watt is important because every data center, every single factory, by definition is power constrained. A one gigabyte factory will never become two. It's physically constrained. The laws of atoms, the laws of physicality. And so that one gigawatt of data center, you want to drive the maximum number of tokens, which is the production, the product of that factory. So you want to be on top of that curve as high as you want. This, the X axis is the interactivity, the speed of inference, the speed of each inference, the faster you can inference, the faster you could, of course, respond. But very importantly, the faster you can inference, the larger the models, the more context you could process, the more tokens you can think through. This axis is the same as smartness of the AI. And so this is the throughput of the AI. This is the smartness of the AI. Notice the smarter the AI, the lower your throughput. Makes sense. You're thinking longer. And so this axis is the speed, and I'm going to come back to this. This is important. This is where I torture all of you. But it's too important. Every CEO in the world, you watch, every CEO in the world will study their business from now on in the way I'm about to describe. Because this is your token factory. This is your AI factory. This is your revenues. There's no question about that going forward. And so this is the throughput. This is the intelligence. Better per watt for a given power of data center, the more throughput, the more tokens you could produce. On this side is cost. Notice, NVIDIA is the highest performance in the world. Nobody would be surprised by that. They would be surprised by the fact that in one generation, whereas Moore's law would have given us, through transistors, 50%, two times, Moore's law would probably give us one and a half times more performance. You would have expected from Hopper H200, one and a half times higher. Nobody would have expected 35 times higher. I said last year at this time that NVIDIA's Grace Blackwell, EnvyLink 72, was 35 times per per watt. Nobody believed me. And then semi-analysis came out and Dylan Patel had a quote. He accused me of sandbagging. He accused me of sandbagging. He says, Jensen sandbagged. It's actually 50 times. And he's not wrong. He's not wrong. And so our cost per token. Our cost per token is the lowest in the world. You can't beat it. I've said before, if you have the wrong architecture, even if it's free, it's not cheap enough. And the reason for that is because no matter what happens, you still have to build a gigawatt data center. You still have to build a gigawatt factory. And that gigawatt factory for 15 years amortized across, that gigawatt factory is about $40 billion. Even when you put nothing on it, it's $40 billion in. You better make for darn sure you put the best computer system on that thing so that you could have the best token cost. NVIDIA's token cost is world-class, basically untouchable at the moment. And the reason that's true is because of extreme co-design. And so I'm very happy that he named us. There was a monkey king, token king. Well, we take all of our softwares. As I told you, we vertically integrate, but we horizontally open. We're vertical integration horizontally open. We integrate all of our software and all of our technology. However, we could package it up and integrate it into the world's inference service providers. And these companies are growing so fast. They're growing so fast. Fireworks, Lin is here, together. They're just growing so incredibly fast. A hundred times in the last year, they are token factories. And the effectiveness, the performance and the token cost production capability for their factories is everything to them. And this is what happened. This is, we updated their software, same system, and notice their token speeds. Incredible. The difference before NVIDIA updated everything and all of our algorithms and software and all the technology that we bring to bear, about 700 tokens per second, average, went to nearly 5,000, seven times higher. And so this is the incredible power of extreme co-design. I mentioned earlier the importance of factories. This is the importance of factory. Your data center, it used to be a data center for files. It's now a factory to generate tokens. Your factory is limited no matter what. Everybody's looking for land, power, and shell. Once you build it, you are power limited. Within that power limited infrastructure, you better make for darn sure that your inference, because you know inference is your workload, and tokens is your new commodity, that compute is your revenues, that you want to make sure that the architecture is as optimized as you can. In the future, every single CSP, every single computer company, every single cloud company, every single AI company, every single company period are going to be thinking about their token factory effectiveness. This is your factory in the future. And the reason why I know that is because everybody in this room is powered by intelligence, and in the future that intelligence will be augmented by tokens. So let me show you how we got here. On April 6, 2016, a decade ago, we introduced DGX1, the world's first computer designed for deep learning. Eight Pascal GPUs connected with the first generation in 2020, DGXA 100 SuperPod became the first GPU supercomputer combining scale up and scale out architecture. In V-Link 3 for scale up, connect X6 and Quantum and Finneband for scale out. Then hover, the first GPU with the FP8 transformer engine that launched the generative AI era. Env-Link 4, connect X7, Bluefield 3 DPUs, second generation Quantum and Finneband. The revolutionized computing. Blackwell redefined AI supercomputing system architecture with Env-Link 72. 72 GPUs connected by Env-Link's find. 130 terabytes per second of all to all bandwidth. Compute trays integrate Blackwell GPUs, Grace CPUs, connect X8 and Bluefield 3. Scale out runs over spectrum 4 ethernet. With three scaling laws in full steam, pre-training, post-training and inference and now agentics systems, compute demand continues to grow exponentially. And now, Vira Ruben. Architected for every phase of agentic AI. Advancing every pillar of computing including CPU, storage, networking and security. Vira Ruben Env-Link 72, 3.6 exaflops of compute. 260 terabytes per second of all to all Env-Link bandwidth. The engine supercharging the era of agentic AI. The Vira CPU wrap. Designed for orchestration and agentic workflows. The STX Rack, AI native storage built with Bluefield 4. Scale out with spectrum X co-packaged optics. Increasing energy efficiency and resiliency. And an incredible new addition, the Grog 3 LPX Rack. Tightly connected to Vira Ruben, Grog's LP use massive on-chip SRAM. A token accelerator to the already incredibly fast Vira Ruben. Another 35 times more throughput per megawatt. The new Vira Ruben platform. Seven chips. Five Rack scale computers. One revolutionary AI supercomputer for agentic AI. 40 million times more compute. In just 10 years. Now, in the good old days when I would say hopper, I would hold up a chip. That's just adorable. This is Vira Ruben. When we think Vira... When we think Vira Ruben, we think the entire system. Vertically integrated. Completely with software. Extended end to end. Optimized as one giant system. The reason why it's designed for agentic systems is very clear. Because agents, of course, the most important workload. Is it's thinking the large language model. The large language models are going to be larger and larger and larger. It's going to generate more and more tokens more quickly. So it could think more quickly. But it also has to access memory. It's going to pound on memory really hard. KV cache. Structure data. QDF. Unstructured data. QVS. It's going to be pounding on the storage system really, really hard. Which is the reason why we reinvented the storage system. It is also going to use tools. And unlike humans that are more tolerant to slower computers, AI wants the tools to be as fast as possible. These tools, web browsers in the future, they could also be virtual PCs in the cloud. Those PCs have to be, and those computers have to be as fast as possible. We created a brand new CPU. A brand new CPU that's designed for extremely high single threaded performance. Incredibly high data output. Incredibly good at data processing. And extreme energy efficiency. It is the only data center CPU in the world that uses LPDDR5, and incredible single thread performance and performance per watt that is unrivaled. And so we built that so that it could go along with the rest of these racks for agentic processing. And so here it is. This is the Grace Blackwell. No, Vera Rubin. Where is it? Here it is. So this is the Vera Rubin system. Notice since the last time 100% liquid cooled, all of the cable's gone. What used to take two days to install now takes two hours. Incredible. And so the manufacturing cycle time is going to dramatically reduce. This is also a supercomputer that is cooled by hot water, 45 degrees, which takes the pressure off of the data center, takes all of that cost and all of that energy that's used to cool the data center and makes it available for the system. This is the secret sauce. It is the only, we're the only company in the world that has today built the sixth, sixth generation scale up switching system. This is not ethernet. This is not Infiniban. This is MVLink. This is the sixth generation MVLink. This is insanely hard to do well. It is insanely hard to do period. And I'm just super proud of the team, MVLink, completely cool. This is the brand new Grock system. And I'll show you a little bit more about it. This system, eight Grock chips. This is the LP30. The world's never seen it. Anything that the world's ever seen is V1. This is third generation. And we're in volume production now. And I'll show you more about that in just a second. The world's first, CPO, Spectrum X Switch. This is also in full production. Co-packaged optics. Optics comes directly onto this chip, interfaces directly to silicon. Electrons get translated to photons. And it gets directly connected to this chip. We invented the process technology with TSMC. We're the only one in production with it today. It's called Coupe. It's completely revolutionary. NVIDIA is in full production with Spectrum X. This is the VARRA system. Twice the performance per watt of any CPUs in the world today. It is also in production. Well, we never thought we would be selling CPU's standalone. We are selling a lot of CPU's standalone. This is already for sure going to be a multi-billion dollar business for us. So I'm very, very pleased with our CPU architects. We designed a revolutionary CPU. And this is the CX9 powered with VARRA CPU. The Bluefield 4 STX, our new storage platform. So these are the racks. And it's connected. Each one of these racks, the MV link rack, this is, I've shown you guys this before, it's a super heavy. It seems to get heavier every year. Because I think there's just more cables in there every year. So this is the MV link rack. We've also taken this technology because it is so efficient to create a data center with these cabling systems, structured cables. So we decided to do that for ethernet. So this is ethernet 256 liquid cooled nodes in one rack. And it is also connected with these incredible connectors. You guys want to see Ruben Ultra. So this is the Ruben Ultra compute node. Unlike Ruben that slides in horizontally, Ruben Ultra goes into a whole new rack. It's called Kyber that enables us to connect 144 GPUs in one MV link domain. And so the Kyber rack, this, I could lift it, I'm sure. But I won't. It's quite heavy. This is one compute node. And it slides into the Kyber rack vertically. This is where it connects into. This is the midplane. The Kyber racks, those four top MV link connectors slide in and connect into this. And this becomes one of the nodes. And each one of these racks is a different compute node. And this is the amazing part. This is the midplane. And the back of the midplane, instead of the cabling system, which has its limits in terms of how far we could drive cables, copper cables. We now have this system to connect 144 GPUs. This is the new MV link. This sits also vertically. And it connects into the midplanes on the back. Compute in the front. MV link switches in the back. One giant computer. So that is Ruben Ultra. APPLAUSE As I mentioned, how about we take this back down? I need the rest of my slides. Oh, it's coming down? OK. Thank you, Janine. This is what happens when you don't practice. OK. All right. So you saw, take your time. Just don't get hurt. You saw this slide. You know, only on video's keynote where you see last year's slide presented again. And the reason for that is I just want to let you know that last year I told you something very, very important. And it's so important, it's worthwhile to tell you again. This is probably the single most important chart for the future of AI factories. And every CEO in the world will be tracking it, will be studying it very deeply. It's much, much more complicated than this. It's multi-dimensional. But you will be studying the throughput and the token speed of your AI factories. The throughput token speed at ISO power, because that's all the time. And the throughput and token speed for your factories forever. And that analysis is going to lead directly to your revenues. What you do this year will show up precisely next year as your revenues. And this chart is what it's all about. And I said, on the vertical axis, on the vertical axis, thank you guys, on the vertical axis is throughput, on the horizontal axis is token rate. I'm going to show you this. Because we're now able to increase the token speed and because model sizes are increasing, because the token length, the context length, depending on the different grades of a different application use case, continues to grow from maybe 100,000 tokens input length to maybe millions. The token input length is growing and also the output token length is growing. And so all of these play into ultimately the marketing and the pricing of future tokens. Tokens are the new commodity. And like all commodities, once it reaches an inflection, once it becomes mature or becomes maturing, it will segment into different parts. The high throughput low speed could be used for the free tier. The next tier could be the medium tier. Larger model maybe, higher speed for sure, larger input context length. That translates to a different price point. You could see from all the different services, this one is free, it's a free tier. The first tier could be $3 per million tokens. The next tier could be $6 per million tokens. You would like to be able to keep pushing this boundary because the larger the model, smarter, the more input token context length, more relevant. The higher the speed, the more you can think and iterate smarter AI models. So this is about smarter AI models. And when you have smarter AI models, each one of these clicks allows you to increase the price. So this is $45. And maybe one day there will be a premium model that allows you a premium service that allows you to generate token speeds that are incredibly high because you're in a critical path or maybe you're doing really long research and $150 per million tokens is just not a thing. So let's translate that. Suppose you were to use 50 million tokens per day as a researcher at $150 per million tokens. As it turns out, as a research team, that's not even a thing. So we believe that this is the future. This is where AI wants to go. This is where it is today. It had to start here to establish the value and establish its usefulness and get better and better and better. In the future, you're going to see most services and encompass all of that. This is Hopper. Hopper started and I moved the chart. This is 50. This is 100. Hopper looks like this. And you would have expected Hopper the next generation to be higher, but nobody would have expected it to be that much higher. This is Grace Blackwell. What Grace Blackwell did is at your free tier, increase your throughput tremendously. However, where you mostly monetize your service, it increased your throughput by 35 times. This is no different than any product that every company makes. The higher the tier, the higher the quality, the higher the performance, the lower the volume, the lower the capacity. And so it is no different than any other business in the world. And so now we're able to increase this tier by 35x. And we introduced a whole new tier. This is the benefit of Grace Blackwell, a huge jump over Hopper. Well, this is what we're doing with. Okay, so this is Grace Blackwell. Okay, let me just reset this. And this is Vera Rubin. Okay. Now just think what just happened. At every single tier, at every single tier, at every single tier, we increase the throughput. And at the tier that where your highest ASP and your most valuable segment, we increased it by 10x. That is the hard work. This is incredibly hard to do out here. This is the benefit of E-Link 72. This is the benefit of extremely low latency. This is the benefit of extreme code design that we could shift the entire area up. Now, what does it mean from a customer perspective in the end? Suppose I were to take all of that and I just, you know, multiply it against, suppose I took 25% of my power, used it in a free tier, 25% of my power in the medium tier, 25% of my power in the high tier and 25% of my power in the premium tier. My data center only has a gigawatt. And so I get to decide how I want to distribute. The free tier allows me to track more customers. This allows me to serve my most valuable customers. And the combination, the product of all that, allows you basically your revenues. The revenues you can generate, assuming this simplistic example, allows Blackwell to generate five times more revenues, Vera Rubin to generate five times. Yeah. So Vera Rubin, you should get there as soon as you can. And the reason for that is because your cost of tokens goes down and your throughput goes up. Now, but we want even more. We want even more. And so let me just show you back to this. This is, as I told you, this throughput requires a ton of flops. This latency, this interactivity requires enormous amount of bandwidth. Computers don't like extreme amount of flops, extreme amount of bandwidth because they're not going to have to be able to assume that doeswill with Grock, okay? And so we acquired the team that worked on the Grock chips and licensed the technology, and we've been working together now to integrate the system. This is what that looks like. So at the most valuable tier, at the most valuable tier, we're now gonna increase performance by 35X. Now this very simple chart revealed to you exactly the reason why NVIDIA is so strong in the vast majority of the workloads so far. And the reason for that is because up in this area, throughput matters so much. Enviling 72 is so game-changing. It is exactly the right architecture, and it's even hard to beat, even as you add Grock to it. However, if you extended this chart way out here and you said you wanted to have services that delivers not 400 tokens per second, but a thousand tokens per second, all of a sudden, Enviling 72 runs out of steam and it simply can't get there. We just don't have enough bandwidth. And so this is where Grock comes in, and this is what happens when we push that out. So it goes out beyond, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Goes out beyond even the limits of what Enviling 72 can do. And if you were to do that, translate that into revenues, relative to Blackwell, Verra Rubin is 5X. If most of your workload is high throughput, I would stick with just 100% Verra Rubin. If a lot of your workload wants to be coding and very high valued engineering token generation, I would add Grock to it. I would add Grock to maybe 25% of my total data center. The rest of my data center is all 100% Verra Rubin. And so that gives you a sense of how you would add Grock to Verra Rubin and extend its performance and extend its value even more. This is what happens. Verra, this is a contrast. The reason why Grock was so attractive to me is because their computing system, a deterministic data flow processor, it is statically compiled, it is compiler scheduled. Meaning the compiler figures out when the data, the computing data arrives at the same time. All of that is done statically in advance and scheduled completely in software. There's no dynamic scheduling. The architecture is designed with massive amounts of SRAM. It is designed just for inference, this one workload. Now this one workload, as it turns out, is the workload of AI factories. And as the world continues to increase the amount of high speed tokens it wants to generate with super smart tokens it wants to generate, the value of this integration is gonna get even higher. And so these are two extreme processors you could see. One chip, 500 megabytes. One Verra Rubin chip, 288 gigabytes. It would take a lot of Grock chips to be able to hold the parameter size of Rubin as well as all of the context that has to go, the KV cache that has to go along with it. So that limited Grock's ability to really reach the mainstream, to really take off until we had a great idea. What have we disaggregated inference altogether with a piece of software called Dynamo? What have we re-architected the way that inference is done in the pipeline so that we could put the work that makes perfect sense on Verra Rubin and then offload the decode generation, the low latency, the bandwidth limited, challenged part of the workload for Grock. And so we united, unified two processors of extreme differences. One for high throughput, one for low latency. It still doesn't change the fact that we need a lot of memory. And so Grock, we're just gonna add a whole bunch of Grock chips, which expands the amount of memory it has. And so if you could just imagine, out of a trillion parameter model, we have to store all of that in Grock chips. However, it sits next to NVIDIA Verra Rubin where we could hold the massive amounts of KV cache that's necessary in processing all of these agentic AI systems. It's based upon this idea of disaggregated inference. We do the pre-fill, that's the easy part, but we also tightly integrate the decode. So the attention part of decode is done on NVIDIA's Verra Rubin which needs a lot of math. And the feed forward network part of it, the decode part is done, the token generation part is done on Verra Rubin, on the Grock chip. The two of them working tightly coupled together over today, ethernet with a special mode to reduce this latency by about half. And so that capability allows us to integrate these two systems. We run Dynamo, this incredible operating system for AI factories on top of it. And you get 35 times increase, 35 times increase, not to mention additional new tiers of inference performance for token generation the world's never seen. So this is it, this is Grock. Thank you. APPLAUSE The Verra Rubin systems, including Grock, I want to thank Samsung, who manufactures the Grock LP30 chip for us. And they're cranking as hard as they can. I really appreciate you guys. We're in production with the Grock chip. And we'll ship it in the second half, probably about Q3 time frame. OK? Grock, LPI. APPLAUSE Verra Rubin, it's kind of hard to imagine any more customers. And the really great thing is Grace Blackwell, early sampling of it was really complicated because of coming together of Emileen 72. But the sampling of Verra Rubin is just going incredibly well. And in fact, Satya, I think texted out already that the first Verra Rubin rack is already up and running at Microsoft Azure. And so I'm super excited for them. We're going to keep cranking these things out. We have now set up a supply chain that could manufacture thousands a week of these systems, essentially multi gigawatts of AI factories per month inside our supply chain. And so we're going to crank out these Verra Rubin racks while we're cranking out the GB300 racks. We are in full production. The Verra CPUs, incredibly successful. And the reason for that is because AI needs CPUs for tool use. And Verra CPU was designed just perfectly for that sweet spot. Incredible for the next generation of data processing. Verra CPU is ideal. The Verra CPU plus CX9 connected into the Bluefield Forestack. 100% of the world's storage industry is joining us on this system. And the reason for that is because they see exactly the same thing. The storage system is going to get pounded. It's going to get pounded because we used to have humans using the storage systems. We used to have humans using SQL. Now we're going to have AI's using these storage systems. And it's going to store KuDF accelerated storage, KuVS accelerated storage, as well as very importantly, KV caching. So this is the Verra Rubin system. Now what's amazing is this. In just two years time, in a one gigawatt factory, in just two years time, in one gigawatt factory, using the mathematics that I showed you earlier, we're asked Moore's law would have given us a couple of steps. We would have, you know, X-factored the number of transistors. We would X-factored the number of flops. We would have X-factored the number of amount of bandwidth. But with this architecture, we're going to take our token generation speed, token generation rate from $2 million to $700 million, $350 times increase. This is the power of extreme co-design. This is what I mean when we integrate and optimize vertically, but then we open it horizontally for everybody to enjoy. This is our roadmap very quickly. Blackwell is here, the Oberon system. In the case of Rubin, we have the Oberon system. We're always backwards combative, so that if you wanted to not change anything and just keep on moving through with the new architecture, you could do so. The standard RAC system, Oberon, still available, Oberon is copper scale up, and with Oberon, we could also use optical scale up to expand to MV link 576. There's a lot of conversation about is NVIDIA going to copper scale up or optical scale up? We're going to do both. So we're going to have MV link 144 with Kyber, and then with Oberon, Oberon, we're going to MV link 72 plus optical to get to MV link 576. The next generation of Rubin with Rubin Ultra, we have the Rubin Ultra chip, which is taping out, and we have a brand new chip, LP35. LP35 will, for the first time, incorporate NVIDIA's MVFP4 computing structure. Give you another few X-factor speed up. So this is Oberon, MV link 72, optical scale up, and it uses spectrum 6, the world's first co-packaged optical, and all of this is in production. The next generation from here is Feynman. Feynman has a new GPU, of course. It also has a new LPU, LP40, big step up, incredible, incredible new technology. Now uniting the scale of NVIDIA and the Grock team building together, LP40. It's going to be incredible. A brand new CPU called Rosa, short for Rosalind, Bluefield 5, which connects the next CPU with the next Superneck, CX10. We will have Kyber, which is copper scale up. We will also have Kyber, CPO scale up. So for the first time, we will scale up with both copper and co-packaged optics. A lot of people have been asking, is copper going to still be important? The answer is yes. Jensen, are you going to scale up optical? Yes. Are you going to scale out optical? Yes. And so for everybody who is in our ecosystem, we need a lot more capacity. And that's really the key. We need a lot more capacity for copper. We need a lot more capacity for optics. We need a lot more capacity for CPO. And that's the reason why we've been working with all of you to lay the foundation for this level of growth. And so Feynman will have all of that. Let me see if I miss everything. That's it. Every single year, brand new architecture. Very quick. Very quickly. NVIDIA went from a chip company to an AI factory company, or AI infrastructure company, an AI computing company, these systems. And now we're building entire AI factories. There's so much power that is squandered in these AI factories. We want to make sure that these AI factories come together, design in the best possible way. Most of these components never meet each other. Most of us technology vendors, now we all know each other. But in the past, we never met each other until the data center. That can't happen. We're building super complex systems. And so we have to meet each other virtually somewhere else. And so we created Omniverse and the Omniverse DSX world, a platform where all of us can meet and design these gigafactories, gigawatt AI factories, virtually in system. We have simulation systems for the racks for mechanical, thermal, electrical, networking, those simulation systems integrated into all of our ecosystem partners of incredible tools companies. We also operated, connected to the grid so that we could interact with each other, send each other information so that we could adjust grid power and data center power accordingly, saving energy. And then inside the data center, using MaxQ so that we could adjust the system dynamically across power and cooling and all of the different technologies we all work on together so that we leave no power squandered so that we run at the most optimal rate to deliver enormous amount of token throughput. There's no question in my mind there's a factor of two in here. And the factor of two at the scale we're talking about is gigantic. We call this the NVIDIA DSX platform. And just as all of our platforms, there's the hardware layer, there's the library layer, and there's the ecosystem layer. It's exactly the same way. Let's show it to you. The greatest infrastructure built out in history is underway. The world is racing to build chip, system, and AI factories. And every month of delay costs billions in lost revenues. AI factory revenues are equal to tokens per watt. So with power constraints, every unused watt is revenue lost. NVIDIA DSX is an omniverse digital twin blueprint for designing and operating AI factories for maximum token throughput, resilience, and energy efficiency. Developers connect through several APIs, DSXM, for physical, electrical, thermal, and network simulation, DSX Exchange, for AI factory operational data, DSXFlex, for secure dynamic power management between the grid, and DSX MaxQ to dynamically maximize token throughput. It starts with sim-ready assets from NVIDIA and equipment manufacturers. Managed by PTC Windchill PLM. Then, model-based systems engineering is done in DASO Systems 3D Experience. Jacob springs the data into their custom omniverse app to finalize design. It's tested with leading simulation tools, using Siemens Star CCM Plus for external thermals, Cadence Reality for Internal, DTAP for Electrical, and NVIDIA's network simulator DSX Air, and virtually commissioned through Pro-Core to ensure accelerated construction time. When the site goes live, the digital twin becomes the operator. AI agents work with DSX MaxQ to dynamically orchestrate infrastructure. Vadres agent oversees cooling and electrical systems, sending signals to MaxQ, which continuously optimizes compute throughput and energy efficiency. Emerald AI agents interpret live grid demand and stress signals, and adjust power dynamically. With DSX, NVIDIA and our ecosystem of partners are racing to build AI infrastructure around the world, ensuring extreme resiliency, efficiency, and throughput. It's incredible, right? Well, omniverse was designed to hold the world's digital twin, starting from the earth. It's going to hold digital twins of all sizes. We have such a great ecosystem of partners. I want to thank all of you. All of these companies are brand new to our world. We didn't know many of you just a couple of years ago. And now we're working so close together to work on and build together the largest computer the world's ever seen, and also to do it at planetary scale. So NVIDIA DSX is our new AI factory platform. I'll spend very little time on this at this time. However, we're going to space. We've already been out in space. Thor is radiation approved. Here in satellites, you do imaging from satellites in the future. We'll also build data centers in space. Obviously, very complicated to do so. We're working with our partners on a new computer called Verra Rubin Space One. And it's going to go out to space and start data centers out in space. Now, of course, in space, there's no conduction. There's no convection. There's just radiation. And so we have to figure out how to cool these systems out in space. But we've got lots of great engineers working on it. Let me talk to you about something new. So Peter Steinberger is here. And he wrote a piece of software. It's called Open Claw. And I don't know if he realized how successful it's going to be. But the importance is profound. Open Claw is the number one, it's the most popular open source project in the history of humanity. And it did so in just a few weeks. It exceeded what Linux did in 30 years. And it's that important. It is that important. It will do well. This is all you do. We're announcing our support of it. Let me just quickly go through this. I want to show you a couple of things. You simply type this. You type this into a console. And it goes out. It finds Open Claw. It downloads it. It builds you an AI agent. And then you could tell it whatever else you need to do. So let's take a look. And open source project just dropped. Andre Carpathi has just launched something called the research is a huge deal. We give an AI agent a task. Go to sleep. It runs 100 experiments overnight. Keeping what works and killing what does. That person to do. And he had like one guy. He told me like he installed it as a 60 year old dad. And like they made beer. Connected the machine via Bluetooth to Open Claw. And then we automated everything including the whole website for people to order. Lobster like of the Arctic. Hundreds of people are queuing up for lobster skin surgeon. Open Claw. Open Claw. We want to build Open Claw with Open Claw. Everyone is talking about Open Claw. Believe it or not there's already a claw con. Incredible. Incredible. Now I illustrated effectively what Open Claw is in this way. And so all of you can understand it. But let's just think what happened. What is Open Claw? It connects it's an agent. It's agent system. It calls and connects to large language models. So the first thing it has. It has resources that it manages. It could access tools. It could access file systems. It could access large language models. It's able to do scheduling. It's able to do cron jobs. It's able to decompose a problem that you gave it. And to step by step by step it could spawn off and call upon other subagents. It has IO. You could talk to it in any modality you want. You could wave at it and it understands you. You could talk to any modality you want. It sends you messages. It texts you. It sends you email. So it's got IO. What else does it have? Well, based on that you could say in fact it's an operating system. I just use the same syntax that I would describe in operating system. Our open claw has open sourced essentially the operating system of agentic computers. It is no different than how Windows made it possible for us to create personal computers. Now open claw has made it possible for us to create personal agents. The implication is incredible. The implications is incredible. The adoption says something all in itself. However, the most important thing is this. Every single company now realize every single company, every single software company, every single technology company for the CEOs, the question is what's your open claw strategy? Just as we need to all have a Linux strategy, we all needed to have a HTTP HTML strategy which started the internet. We all needed to have a Kubernetes strategy which made it possible for mobile cloud to happen. Every company in the world today needs to have an open claw strategy, an agentic system strategy. This is the new computer. Now this is just an exciting part. This is enterprise IT before open claw. I mentioned earlier the way enterprise IT works and the reason why it's called data centers is because these large rooms, these large buildings held data, held the files of people, the structured data of business. It would pass through software that has tools and systems of records and all kinds of workflow that's codified into it and that turns into tools that humans would use. Digital workers would use. That is the old IT industry. Software companies creating tools, saving files and of course, GSIs consultants that help companies figure out how to use these tools and integrate these tools. These tools are incredibly valuable for governance and security and privacy and compliance and all of that continues to be true. It's just that post open claw, post agentic, this is what it's going to look like. This is the extraordinary part. Every single IT company, every single company, every SaaS company will become a gas company. No question about it. Every single SaaS company will become a gas company and they gentic as a service company. What's amazing is this, you now open claw gave us, gave the industry exactly what it needed at exactly the time. Just as Linux gave the industry exactly what it needed at exactly the time, just as Kubernetes showed up at exactly the right time, just as HTML showed up. It made it possible for the entire industry to grab onto this open source stack and go do something with it. There's just one catch. Access systems in the corporate network can have access to sensitive information, it can execute code and it can communicate externally. Just say that out loud. Think about it. Access sensitive information, execute code, communicate externally. You could of course access employee information, access supply to access finance information, this information and send it out, communicate externally. This can't possibly be allowed. What we did was we worked with Peter, we took some of the world's best security and computing experts and we worked with Peter to make open claw, open claw, enterprise secure and enterprise private capable. We call that, this is our NVIDIA open claw reference for open Nemo claw which is a reference for open claw and it has all these agent AI tool kits and the first part of it is technology we call open shell that has now been integrated into open claw. Now it's enterprise ready. This stack with a reference design we call Nemo claw, with a reference stack we call Nemo claw. You could download it, play with it and you could connect to it the policy engine of all of the SaaS companies in the world and your policy engines are super important, super valuable. So the policy engines could be connected, Nemo claw or open claw with open shell would be able to execute that policy engine. It has a network guard rail, it has a privacy router and as a result we could protect the and keep the claws from executing inside our company and do it safely. We also added several things to the agent system and one of the most important things you want to do with your own claw custom claws is so that you can have your custom models and this is NVIDIA's open model initiative. We are now at the frontier of every single domain of AI models. Whether it's Nemo tron, cosmos world foundation model, grute, artificial general robotics, human robotics models, alpamio for autonomous vehicle, bionimo for digital biology, earth two for AI physics, we are at the frontier on every single one. Take a look. The world is diverse. No single model can serve every industry. Open models is one of the largest and most diverse AI ecosystems in the world. Nearly 3 million open models across language, vision, biology, physics and autonomous systems enable AI builds for specialized domains. NVIDIA is one of the largest contributors to open source AI. We build and release six families of open frontier models plus the training data, recipes and frameworks to help developers customize and adopt. New leaderboard topping models are launching for every family. At the core, Nemo tron models for general purpose robots, bionimo, open models for biology, chemistry and molecular design. Earth two models for weather and climate forecasting rooted in AI physics. NVIDIA open models give researchers and developers the foundation to build and deploy AI for their own specialized domains. Our models are model. Thank you. Our model is a valuable to all of you because number one, it's on the top of the leaderboard. It's world class. But most importantly, it's because we are not going to give up working on it. We're going to keep on working on it every single day. Nemo tron three is going to be followed by Nemo tron four. Cosmos one was followed by Cosmos two. Groot, Groot at generation two. Each and one of these were going to continue to advance these models. Vertical integration, horizontal openness so that we can enable everybody to join the AI revolution. Number one on leaderboard across research and voice and world models and artificial general botics and self-driving cars and reasoning. Of course, one of the most important one, this is Nemo tron three in open claw. This is Nemo tron three in open claw. And look at the top three. There are the three best models in the world. So we are at the frontier. It is also true. It is also true that we want to create the foundation model so that all of you could fine tune it and post train it into exactly the intelligence you need. This is Nemo tron three ultra. It is going to be the best base model the world's ever created. This allows us to help every country build their sovereign AI. And we are working with so many different companies out there. And one of the most exciting things that we are doing today, I am announcing today, is a Nemo tron coalition. We are so dedicated to this. We have invested billions of dollars of AI infrastructure so that we could develop the core engines for AI that is necessary for all the libraries of inference and so on. But also to create the AI models to activate every single industry in the world. Those language models are really important. Of course it is important. How can human intelligence not be? However, in different industries around the world, in different countries around the world, you need to have the ability to customize your own models. And the domain of the models is radically different from biology, to physics, to self-driving cars, to general robotics, to of course human language. And we have the ability to work with every single region to create their domain specific, their sovereign AI. Today, we are announcing a coalition to partner with us to make Nemo tron 4 even more amazing. And that coalition has some amazing companies in it. Blackforce Labs, imaging company, cursor, the famous coding company, we use lots of it. Langchain, billion downloads for creating custom agents. Mr. Stroll, the Arthur, Arthur mentioned, I think he's here, incredible, incredible company, perplexity, perplexes computer. Absolutely use it. Everybody use it. It is so good. A multi-modal agent system, reflection, Sarvam from India, thinking machine, Mira Maradi's lab. Incredible companies joining us. Thank you. I said that every single enterprise company, every single software company in the world, needs an agent systems, need an agent strategy. You need to have an open-claw strategy. And they all agree. And they're all partnering with us to integrate Nemo, the Nemo-Claw reference design, the NVIDIA agentic AI toolkit, and of course, all of our open models. One company after another, there's so many. And we're partnering with all of you. I'm really grateful for that. And this is our moment. This is a reinvention. This is a renaissance, a renaissance of the enterprise IT. From what would be a $2 trillion industry, this is going to become a multi-trillion-dollar industry offering not just tools for people to use, but agents that are specialized in very special domains that you're expert in that we could rent. I could totally imagine in the future, every single engineer in our company will need an annual token budget. They're going to make a few hundred thousand dollars a year of their base pay. I'm going to give them probably half of that on top of it as tokens so that they could be amplified 10x. Of course, we would. It is now one of the recruiting tools in Silicon Valley. How many tokens comes along with my job? And the reason for that is very clear because every engineer that has access to tokens will be more productive. And those tokens, as you know, will be produced by AI factories that all of you and us, we partner to build. So every single enterprise company in today, sit on top of file systems and data centers, every single software company of the future will be agentic and they will be token manufacturers. They'll be token users for their engineers and they'll be token manufacturers for all of their customers. The open clause event, the open clause event cannot be understated. This is as big of a deal as HTML. This is as big of a deal as Linux. We have now a world class open agentic framework that all of us could use to build our open clause strategy. And we've created a reference design we call NemoClaw. NemoClaw that all of you could use that is optimized, it's performant, it is safe and secure. Speaking of agents, agents as you know, perceive, reason and act. Most of the agents in the world today that I've spoken about are digital agents. They act in the digital world. They reason, they write software. It's all digital. But we also have been working on physically embodied agents for a long time. We call them robots. And the AIs that they need are physical AIs. We have some big announcements here. I'm going to just walk through a few of them. 110 robots here. Almost every single company in the world. I can't think of one. That building robots is working with NVIDIA. We have three computers, the training computer, the synthetic data generation and simulation computer. And of course the robotics computer that sits inside the robot itself. We have all the software stacks necessary to do so. The AI models to help you. And all of this is integrated into ecosystems around the world and all of our partners from Siemens to Cadence. Incredible partners everywhere. And today we're announcing a whole bunch of new partners. As you know, we've been working on self-driving cars for a long time. The chat GPT moment of self-driving cars has arrived. We now know we could successfully autonomously drive cars. And today we are announcing four new partners for NVIDIA's Robotaxi Ready platform. BYD. Hyundai. Nissan. Geely. All together. Eighteen million cars built each year. Joining our partners from before, Mercedes, Toyota, GM. The number of Robotaxi Ready cars in the future are going to be incredible. And we're announcing also a big partnership with Uber. Multiple cities. We're going to be deploying and connecting these Robotaxi Ready vehicles into their network. And so a whole bunch of new cars. We have an ABB, universal Robotax, CUKA. So many Robotaxi companies here. And we're working with them to implement our physical AI models integrated into simulation systems so that we could deploy these robots into manufacturing lines all over. We have Caterpillar here. We even have T-Mobile here. And the reason for that is in the future, that radio tower used to be a radio tower is going to be an NVIDIA aerial AI ran. And so this is going to be a robotics radio tower. Meaning it can reason about the traffic, figure is out how to adjust its beam forming so that it could save as much energy as possible and increase the amount of fidelity as possible. There's so many humanoid robots here. But one of my favorites, one of my favorites is a Disney robot. You know what? Tell you what. Let's show you some of the videos. Let's look at that first. The first global rollout of physical AI at scale is here. Autonomous vehicles. And with NVIDIA alpomio, vehicles now have reasoning. And neural simulation, they generate massive amounts of synthetic data and train policies at scale. To accelerate developers, NVIDIA Build Open Source Isaac Lab for robot training and evaluation and simulation. Newton for extensible and GPU accelerated differentiable physics simulation. Cosmos world models for neural simulation. And Groot Open Robotics Foundation models for robot reasoning and action generation. With enough compute, developers everywhere are closing the physical AI data gap. Peritas AI trains their operating room assistant robot in NVIDIA Isaac Lab, multiplying their data with NVIDIA Cosmos world models. Skilled AI uses Isaac Lab and Cosmos to generate post-training data for their skilled AI brain. They use reinforcement learning to harden the model across thousands of variations. humanoid uses Isaac Lab to train whole body control and manipulation policies. Hexagon Robotics uses Isaac Lab for training and data generation. Foxconn fine-tunes Groot models in Isaac Lab. As does noble machines. Disney Research uses their Camino physics simulator in Newton and Isaac Lab to train policies across their character robots in every universe. Does ladies and gentlemen pull off? Does it save? New new new works. Omniverse works. Olaf. How are you? I don't have a doubt about leaving you. I know. Because I gave you your computer. Jetson. What's that? Well, it's in your tummy. That's going to be amazing. And you learn how to walk inside Omniverse. I love walking. They see so much better than riding on a rain, gazing up in a beautiful sky. And it was because of physics using this Newton solver that runs on top of NVIDIA Warp that we jointly developed with Disney and with DeepMind that made it possible for you to be able to adapt to the physical world. I'm not going to say that. That's how smart you are. I'm a snowman, not a snow clippity. Did you imagine this? The future of Disneyland? All these robots? All these characters wandering around? Oh! I have to admit though, I thought you were going to be taller. I've never seen such a short snowman to be honest. Nope. Hey, tell you what, you want to help me out? Hooray! Okay. Usually, usually I close the keynote by telling you what I told you. We talked about inference and flexion. We talked about the AI factory. We talked about the open claw agent revolution that's happening. And of course, we talked about physical AI and robotics. But tell you what, why don't we get some friends to help us close it out? Of course! All right, play it. Come on. Terminating simulation. Hello? Anybody here? Oh! I've seen that. I've seen that. Oh! The keynote's over. All we said gents and mapped the road ahead. AI factories come in a lot. Agents learning how to drive from open models to robots too. Now we'll break it all down for you. Computer exploded what we saw from CNN's to open claw. Agents working across the land. They need the power to meet demand, so we solve the problem. It was brilliant. We multiplied, compute by 40 million. Once a prone AI time train was prepared. Sure, it talked to models, how, but in friends runs the whole world now. There shows us who's the boss at 35 times less the cost. Blackwell makes the token singing video. The inference came. Yeah, factories once took years, vendors pulling racks and gears built up slowly, piece by piece. No clear way to scale this beast. DSX and Dynamo know what to do. Turning power into revenue. O'er the agents used to wait and see. Now act autonomous, leave, but if they ever try to stray safe crossblock and save no way. Nemo closed their to guard the course. And yes, my friend, it's the open source. Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh. Cars that think and joys that run this ain't the movies. It's all begun. Alkamayo calls a shot. It's a GPT moment for the bots from Sim to Street. Now watch them drive, blow your hands up. Ooh, a physical AI. Ooh, a physical AI. Nustule age, build what came before. Now we build for AI. Even more, Vera Ruben plus Grok make the inference splash. Put them together. Now it's raining cash. We build new architecture every year, because claws keep yelling more tokens here. The AI stacks for all to make so. Let us all eat five. Lay a cake, the moment's bright. The path is clear, because open models let us hear when data's missing. There's no dispute. We just generate more with compute. Robots learning without flaw. Fuel in the force, scaling laws. The future's here, won't you come and see. Welcome all to GTC. All right, have a great GTC. Waste. Thank you everybody. Thank you Zero off! you you you you you
