Timestamp: 2026-01-27T09:40:59.907197
Title: The Strongest warning from the Lord I have ever given
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=utf0ZMPboz4
Status: success
Duration: 2:10:07

Description:
**核心观点：**
鉴于教会未能充分祷告且总统个人骄傲，美国总统面临暗杀威胁，这将引发全球冲突和国家动荡，只有教会的集体悔改和代祷才能改变这一预言性结局。

**总体框架：**
上帝的预言性警告、教会的祷告责任与美国命运的抉择

**总结大纲：**

**I. 预言的来源与严肃性**
    *   讲者（Brandon）收到了来自耶稣的“严厉话语”，是他公开分享过最艰难的预言之一。
    *   耶稣在一次计划直播前夜以异象形式显现，并伴有三位天使，主的荣耀充满了讲者的家。
    *   讲者强调该预言已得到多位长老的确认和长时间的祷告。

**II. 针对美国总统特朗普的预言**
    *   **核心警告：** 耶稣告知讲者，美国总统即将被刺客“带走”。
    *   **原因分析：**
        *   教会整体祷告不足，将总统视为救世主而非耶稣。
        *   总统内心生出骄傲，采纳了不敬虔者的建议，为魔鬼攻击敞开了大门。
    *   **异象细节：**
        *   一名军事训练有素的刺客，手持.50口径武器，穿着黑色作战服，距离遥远，精准射击。
        *   刺客与法国总统马克龙及俄罗斯政府有所关联。
        *   特勤局在事发时陷入恐慌，未能有效应对。
    *   **后果：**
        *   直接引发第三次世界大战，欧洲爆发大规模战争。
        *   美国经济危机加剧，全国将面临征兵。
        *   此事件被称为“未致命的创伤”，将震撼美国教会和国家，促使“新娘回到我身边”（教会觉醒）。

**III. 国家层面的其他预言与警示**
    *   **经济危机：** 美国面临34-40万亿美元的巨额债务，经济状况极其危险。最高法院关于关税的决定以及美联储主席的变动至关重要，可能涉及财富转移（粉色货币、第纳尔等加密货币）。
    *   **加沙重建：** 先前关于加沙重建的预言正在应验，MBS（沙特王储）与其他阿拉伯国家领导人以“V”字形团队出现，促成和平协议，开发石油资源，并建设“特朗普高尔夫球场”。
    *   **和平委员会旗帜：** 讲者认为“和平委员会”的旗帜与他曾见过的敌基督旗帜非常相似，预示着末世的进一步发展。
    *   **奥林匹克开幕式：** 预言即将到来的奥林匹克开幕式将是“可憎之事”，对天父而言是“打脸”的行为，可能涉及大规模的伊斯兰宗教庆典。
    *   **内部清理：** 上帝正在震动并清理教会、天主教会和主要媒体网络中的腐败，将兴起谦卑、有品格、不被金钱左右的新一代领袖。

**IV. 祷告的呼召与属灵责任**
    *   **教会责任：** 耶稣强调教会对国家的命运负有责任，因为祂已赐予教会抵挡仇敌的权柄。
    *   **祷告行动：** 呼吁信徒组成“百万男女祷告大军”，为总统、其顾问、最高法院、经济、以及全球关键地区（伊朗、古巴、以色列、加沙、澳大利亚、朝鲜、中国、菲律宾）祷告。
    *   **神圣转机：** 相信通过祷告，可以改变预言的负面走向，带来神圣的转机，例如加速寒潮的消散、避免大规模停电、并实现灵魂的大丰收。
    *   **自由意志：** 上帝赐予人类自由意志，预言的实现与否，取决于人的选择，特别是教会是否选择起来祷告。

**V. 救赎的呼召**
    *   强调末世的紧迫性，呼吁未曾接受耶稣基督为个人救主的人，或曾经背道、冷淡的信徒，立即悔改归向耶稣。
    *   鼓励通过简单的祷告来接受救赎，并强调得救后应加入符合圣经教导的教会，接受水洗，每日读经祷告，寻求圣灵的引导。
    *   为37位通过直播接受耶稣的听众庆祝，并提供免费圣经。

---
<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    subgraph "核心主题 Core Theme"
        A["上帝的预言性警告"]:::divine_source
        B["教会的祷告责任"]:::human_duty
        C["美国命运的抉择"]:::pivotal_choice
        A --> B
        B --> C
    end

    subgraph "预言与异象 Prophecy & Vision"
        J["耶稣基督"]:::divine_source
        K["神圣异象/降临"]:::divine_event
        L["讲者 (Brandon)"]:::messenger

        J -- "揭示预言性信息" --> K
        K -- "赋予讲者" --> L
    end

    subgraph "总统与国家面临的挑战 Presidential & National Challenges"
        D["美国总统 (特朗普)"]:::leader_figure
        E["骄傲与不敬虔建议"]:::negative_influence
        F["教会祷告不足"]:::church_failure
        G["魔鬼攻击之门"]:::opened_door
        H["刺客 (俄/法关联)"]:::threat_agent
        I["暗杀预言"]:::major_warning
        M["第三次世界大战"]:::global_catastrophe

        D -- "导致" --> E
        E --> G
        F --> G
        G --> I
        H --> I
        I -- "直接触发" --> M
        M -- "导致" --> N["欧洲大规模战争"]:::conflict
        M -- "导致" --> O["供应链/物资危机"]:::disruption
        M -- "导致" --> P["全国征兵"]:::societal_impact
    end

    subgraph "经济与地缘政治 Economic & Geopolitical Landscape"
        Q["美国经济深陷赤字 (34-40万亿)"]:::economy_crisis
        R["最高法院关税决策"]:::economic_decision
        S["美联储主席变动"]:::economic_policy
        T["财富转移机遇"]:::economic_hope
        U["经济泡沫破裂"]:::imminent_danger

        Q --> R
        Q --> S
        S -- "可能带来" --> T
        Q -- "最终趋势" --> U

        V["加沙重建计划"]:::geopolitical_event
        W["MBS与阿拉伯联盟"]:::key_players
        X["中东和平协议"]:::geopolitical_agreement
        Y["'和平委员会'旗帜"]:::symbolic_warning
        Z["敌基督符号初现"]:::end_times_signal

        V -- "由...推动" --> W
        W -- "促成" --> X
        X -- "伴随" --> Y
        Y -- "与...相似" --> Z
    end

    subgraph "教会的责任与结果 Church's Responsibility & Outcomes"
        AA["未致命的创伤 (震醒教会)"]:::divine_purpose
        BB["灵魂大丰收与教会觉醒"]:::positive_spiritual_outcome
        CC["奥林匹克开幕式(可憎之事)"]:::moral_warning
        DD["教会内部震动与清理"]:::divine_discipline
        EE["谦卑敬虔领袖兴起"]:::new_leadership
        FF["悔改与救赎呼召"]:::salvation_call
        GG["神圣转机与灾难规避"]:::miraculous_intervention
        HH["百万祷告大军"]:::collective_action
        II["自由意志原则"]:::theological_concept
        JJ["末世紧迫性"]:::eschatological_context

        I -- "作为" --> AA
        AA -- "目的" --> BB
        L -- "预言" --> CC
        A -- "导致" --> DD
        DD -- "产生" --> EE
        L -- "发出" --> FF
        FF -- "结果" --> BB
        HH -- "促成" --> GG
        G -- "可被...改变" --> GG
        D -- "面临" --> II
        II -- "影响" --> C
        A -- "基于" --> JJ
    end

    style A fill:#003366,stroke:#FFFFFF,stroke-width:2px,color:#FFFFFF;
    style B fill:#003366,stroke:#FFFFFF,stroke-width:2px,color:#FFFFFF;
    style C fill:#003366,stroke:#FFFFFF,stroke-width:2px,color:#FFFFFF;
    style J fill:#FFD700,stroke:#B8860B,stroke-width:2px,color:#333;
    style K fill:#FFD700,stroke:#B8860B,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style L fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style D fill:#B0C4DE,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style E fill:#FFB6C1,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style F fill:#FFB6C1,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style G fill:#FA8072,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style H fill:#DC143C,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style I fill:#DC143C,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#333;
    style M fill:#DC143C,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style N fill:#DC143C,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style O fill:#DC143C,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style P fill:#DC143C,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style Q fill:#F0E68C,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style R fill:#B0C4DE,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style S fill:#B0C4DE,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style T fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style U fill:#FFA07A,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style V fill:#B0C4DE,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style W fill:#B0C4DE,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style X fill:#F0E68C,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style Y fill:#FFA07A,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style Z fill:#DC143C,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style AA fill:#FFD700,stroke:#B8860B,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style BB fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#333;
    style CC fill:#FFA07A,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style DD fill:#FFD700,stroke:#B8860B,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style EE fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style FF fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#333;
    style GG fill:#90EE90,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#333;
    style HH fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#333;
    style II fill:#ADD8E6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
    style JJ fill:#F0E68C,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#333;
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
Well, good evening, family. Thank you, Well, good evening, family. Thank you, for joining me again tonight. Um, I have, for joining me again tonight. Um, I have, for joining me again tonight. Um, I have, a lot to talk to you all about. I've, a lot to talk to you all about. I've, a lot to talk to you all about. I've, been, um, praying over a lot of things, been, um, praying over a lot of things, been, um, praying over a lot of things, the Lord has had me on, the Lord has had me on, the Lord has had me on, uh, on assignment is what I want to call, uh, on assignment is what I want to call, uh, on assignment is what I want to call, it. But, um, it. But, um, it. But, um, I'm trying I I ask you just to pray for, I'm trying I I ask you just to pray for, I'm trying I I ask you just to pray for, me because I'm going to give a really, me because I'm going to give a really, me because I'm going to give a really, hard word tonight. And uh this word is, hard word tonight. And uh this word is, hard word tonight. And uh this word is, probably one of the hardest words I've, probably one of the hardest words I've, probably one of the hardest words I've, ever given on a public platform., ever given on a public platform., ever given on a public platform., And I don't know if I'll deliver it or, And I don't know if I'll deliver it or, And I don't know if I'll deliver it or, not. I'm I've been praying over this., not. I'm I've been praying over this., not. I'm I've been praying over this., I've brought it to the elders. I've I've, I've brought it to the elders. I've I've, I've brought it to the elders. I've I've, um I have bathed this in prayer., um I have bathed this in prayer., um I have bathed this in prayer., And it's probably, like I said, I I you, And it's probably, like I said, I I you, And it's probably, like I said, I I you, know, you if you know me and you've been, know, you if you know me and you've been, know, you if you know me and you've been, following this channel, um I give very, following this channel, um I give very, following this channel, um I give very, hard words and I'm very bold about it., hard words and I'm very bold about it., hard words and I'm very bold about it., But this word that I was given from the, But this word that I was given from the, But this word that I was given from the, Lord, I believe with all my heart was, Lord, I believe with all my heart was, Lord, I believe with all my heart was, the Lord after I've saturated this in, the Lord after I've saturated this in, the Lord after I've saturated this in, prayer for some time now. Um I brought, prayer for some time now. Um I brought, prayer for some time now. Um I brought, it to, like I said, my elders, the, it to, like I said, my elders, the, it to, like I said, my elders, the, people that I believe I can trust, uh, people that I believe I can trust, uh, people that I believe I can trust, uh, their pastors. I talked to pastors that, their pastors. I talked to pastors that, their pastors. I talked to pastors that, are over me. I've talked to uh Sister, are over me. I've talked to uh Sister, are over me. I've talked to uh Sister, Billy. I've talked to a lot of people, Billy. I've talked to a lot of people, Billy. I've talked to a lot of people, and I've uh um out of a council of I've, and I've uh um out of a council of I've, and I've uh um out of a council of I've, put, you know, several very strong key, put, you know, several very strong key, put, you know, several very strong key, leaders is what I want to call call them, leaders is what I want to call call them, leaders is what I want to call call them, that I believe have great discernment, that I believe have great discernment, that I believe have great discernment, and uh because of the the weight the, and uh because of the the weight the, and uh because of the the weight the, weightiness of this word., weightiness of this word., weightiness of this word., And I had this visitation from Jesus., And I had this visitation from Jesus., And I had this visitation from Jesus., Um the night I I had the live stream and, Um the night I I had the live stream and, Um the night I I had the live stream and, I it was the laughing. The glory of the, I it was the laughing. The glory of the, I it was the laughing. The glory of the, Lord filled my house., Lord filled my house., Lord filled my house., That's very edited. The Lord said, "I, That's very edited. The Lord said, "I, That's very edited. The Lord said, "I, don't want you to go live this night. I, don't want you to go live this night. I, don't want you to go live this night. I, want you to be uh uh private and I'm, want you to be uh uh private and I'm, want you to be uh uh private and I'm, going to talk to you.", going to talk to you.", going to talk to you.", When that happened, he showed up and he, When that happened, he showed up and he, When that happened, he showed up and he, stood right here as I was doing my live, stood right here as I was doing my live, stood right here as I was doing my live, and the manifested presence of God, and the manifested presence of God, and the manifested presence of God, filled my house, filled my house, filled my house, from, from, from, probably what was it 9:00 until about 6, probably what was it 9:00 until about 6, probably what was it 9:00 until about 6, that morning, 7 the next day., that morning, 7 the next day., that morning, 7 the next day., The glory of the Lord filled my home so, The glory of the Lord filled my home so, The glory of the Lord filled my home so, strong I didn't want to move out of this, strong I didn't want to move out of this, strong I didn't want to move out of this, chair. I sat here and just wept., chair. I sat here and just wept., chair. I sat here and just wept., Braden felt it. My wife, Braden felt it. My wife, Braden felt it. My wife, three angels were with him, three angels were with him, three angels were with him, and they spoke to me. The the Lord spoke, and they spoke to me. The the Lord spoke, and they spoke to me. The the Lord spoke, to me, not they. The Lord spoke to me, to me, not they. The Lord spoke to me, to me, not they. The Lord spoke to me, and he he told me what was coming., I I I was I was taken back by the word., I I I was I was taken back by the word., So, I I I um like I said, I I have, So, I I I um like I said, I I have, So, I I I um like I said, I I have, prayed and prayed and prayed over it., prayed and prayed and prayed over it., prayed and prayed and prayed over it., So, I'm going to just go over some other, So, I'm going to just go over some other, So, I'm going to just go over some other, things first before I get into all that, things first before I get into all that, things first before I get into all that, because I'm just trying to fill it out, because I'm just trying to fill it out, because I'm just trying to fill it out, because um once I give it, it's out, because um once I give it, it's out, because um once I give it, it's out, there., there., there., So, um okay., Father, I just thank you, Lord, for this, Father, I just thank you, Lord, for this, time of prayer. Father, I lift up this, time of prayer. Father, I lift up this, time of prayer. Father, I lift up this, time of prayer to you right now in the, time of prayer to you right now in the, time of prayer to you right now in the, name of Jesus. And I bind any demonic, name of Jesus. And I bind any demonic, name of Jesus. And I bind any demonic, spirits off this house and off of me, my, spirits off this house and off of me, my, spirits off this house and off of me, my, wife, and my children uninterrupted and, wife, and my children uninterrupted and, wife, and my children uninterrupted and, unhindered by any satanic or demonic, unhindered by any satanic or demonic, unhindered by any satanic or demonic, force. Father, I thank you that you, force. Father, I thank you that you, force. Father, I thank you that you, speak through my vocal cords and think, speak through my vocal cords and think, speak through my vocal cords and think, through my mind. None of me and all of, through my mind. None of me and all of, through my mind. None of me and all of, you in the name of Jesus. And Father, I, you in the name of Jesus. And Father, I, you in the name of Jesus. And Father, I, thank you, Lord, that we always, thank you, Lord, that we always, thank you, Lord, that we always, attracted, deflect, and we give all the, attracted, deflect, and we give all the, attracted, deflect, and we give all the, glory to God on this channel. All that, glory to God on this channel. All that, glory to God on this channel. All that, we say and in word and in deed, we give, we say and in word and in deed, we give, we say and in word and in deed, we give, all to the glory of God. We know it has, all to the glory of God. We know it has, all to the glory of God. We know it has, nothing to do with me and has everything, nothing to do with me and has everything, nothing to do with me and has everything, to do with you, Jesus. And it's all, to do with you, Jesus. And it's all, to do with you, Jesus. And it's all, about you and it will continue to be, about you and it will continue to be, about you and it will continue to be, about you, sir. We love you. We love, about you, sir. We love you. We love, about you, sir. We love you. We love, you. We give you the highest praise for, you. We give you the highest praise for, you. We give you the highest praise for, you are so worthy and you're so holy., you are so worthy and you're so holy., you are so worthy and you're so holy., All right., So, we see a lot going on in the news, So, we see a lot going on in the news, right?, We thank you father for your glory, We thank you father for your glory, for you are good., for you are good., for you are good., You do miracles so good., You do miracles so good., You do miracles so good., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you. For you, There is no one else like you. For you, There is no one else like you. For you, are great., are great., are great., You do miracles so great., You do miracles so great., You do miracles so great., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you. Is, There is no one else like you. Is, There is no one else like you. Is, everything okay?, everything okay?, everything okay?, &gt;&gt; Yeah. You want me to get her right now?, &gt;&gt; Yeah. You want me to get her right now?, &gt;&gt; Yeah. You want me to get her right now?, &gt;&gt; No, it's fine. She's fine right now., &gt;&gt; No, it's fine. She's fine right now., &gt;&gt; No, it's fine. She's fine right now., For you are great., For you are great., For you are great., You do miracles so great., You do miracles so great., You do miracles so great., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you. For you, There is no one else like you. For you, There is no one else like you. For you, are great., are great., are great., You do miracles so great., You do miracles so great., You do miracles so great., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you., You deserve the glory, You deserve the glory, You deserve the glory, and the honor., and the honor., and the honor., Lord, we lift our hands in worship as we, Lord, we lift our hands in worship as we, Lord, we lift our hands in worship as we, bless your holy name for you deserve the, bless your holy name for you deserve the, bless your holy name for you deserve the, glory, glory, glory, and the honor., and the honor., and the honor., Lord, we lift our hands in worship as we, Lord, we lift our hands in worship as we, Lord, we lift our hands in worship as we, bless your holy name. For you are great., bless your holy name. For you are great., bless your holy name. For you are great., You do miracles so great., You do miracles so great., You do miracles so great., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you. For you, There is no one else like you. For you, There is no one else like you. For you, are great. You do miracles so great., are great. You do miracles so great., are great. You do miracles so great., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you., and the honor., and the honor., Lord, we lift our hands in worship as we, Lord, we lift our hands in worship as we, Lord, we lift our hands in worship as we, bless your holy name. For you deserve, bless your holy name. For you deserve, bless your holy name. For you deserve, the gloryy, the gloryy, the gloryy, and the honor., and the honor., and the honor., Lord, we lift our hands in worship as we, Lord, we lift our hands in worship as we, Lord, we lift our hands in worship as we, bless your holy name. For you are great., bless your holy name. For you are great., bless your holy name. For you are great., You do miracles so great., You do miracles so great., You do miracles so great., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you. For you, There is no one else like you. For you, There is no one else like you. For you, are great., are great., are great., You do miracles so great., You do miracles so great., You do miracles so great., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like you., There is no one else like, There is no one else like, There is no one else like, you., Father, I thank you., Father, I thank you., I thank you Lord. All of you and none of, I thank you Lord. All of you and none of, I thank you Lord. All of you and none of, me., me., me., All of you and none of me., All of you and none of me., All of you and none of me., Thank you, Lord. All right. All right. I, Thank you, Lord. All right. All right. I, Thank you, Lord. All right. All right. I, feel inside we can go this way. I want, feel inside we can go this way. I want, feel inside we can go this way. I want, to I want to start it off by playing, to I want to start it off by playing, to I want to start it off by playing, something that I have made you three or, something that I have made you three or, something that I have made you three or, four times now., four times now., four times now., And I've taken the time to really pray, And I've taken the time to really pray, And I've taken the time to really pray, over this, but I want to play it. And, over this, but I want to play it. And, over this, but I want to play it. And, this is going to be me watching a video, this is going to be me watching a video, this is going to be me watching a video, watching it now again, watching it now again, watching it now again, because I can't do it any better than, because I can't do it any better than, because I can't do it any better than, what I did it the first time. I told, what I did it the first time. I told, what I did it the first time. I told, Brain I said it is what it is. So I want, Brain I said it is what it is. So I want, Brain I said it is what it is. So I want, you to watch me telling you what I'm, you to watch me telling you what I'm, you to watch me telling you what I'm, about to tell you in just a second. So, about to tell you in just a second. So, about to tell you in just a second. So, because I'm not going to do it again, because I'm not going to do it again, because I'm not going to do it again, after doing this so many times. I said, after doing this so many times. I said, after doing this so many times. I said, "Hey, you know what? It is what it is., "Hey, you know what? It is what it is., "Hey, you know what? It is what it is., If you receive it, you receive it. If, If you receive it, you receive it. If, If you receive it, you receive it. If, you can pray and help me pray over, you can pray and help me pray over, you can pray and help me pray over, what's about to be told to you, then you, what's about to be told to you, then you, what's about to be told to you, then you, then then you're on assignment with me., then then you're on assignment with me., then then you're on assignment with me., Okay. So, here you go., Okay. So, here you go., Okay. So, here you go., Go ahead and play it., Go ahead and play it., Go ahead and play it., &gt;&gt; Are you going to start from the, &gt;&gt; Are you going to start from the, &gt;&gt; Are you going to start from the, beginning?, beginning?, beginning?, &gt;&gt; I'm just ready to get get this off of, &gt;&gt; I'm just ready to get get this off of, &gt;&gt; I'm just ready to get get this off of, me., me., me., &gt;&gt; Okay. So, you going to start from the, &gt;&gt; Okay. So, you going to start from the, &gt;&gt; Okay. So, you going to start from the, beginning? Hey, you want to film or you, beginning? Hey, you want to film or you, beginning? Hey, you want to film or you, going to start from like where you start, going to start from like where you start, going to start from like where you start, reacting to it?, reacting to it?, reacting to it?, &gt;&gt; I want you to just react to it. Okay., &gt;&gt; I want you to just react to it. Okay., &gt;&gt; I want you to just react to it. Okay., &gt;&gt; Okay., to judge it, to pray over. Good morning, to judge it, to pray over. Good morning, family. Praise the Lord. Thank you for, family. Praise the Lord. Thank you for, family. Praise the Lord. Thank you for, joining me again today. Well, I'm about, joining me again today. Well, I'm about, joining me again today. Well, I'm about, to give one of the most important words, to give one of the most important words, to give one of the most important words, that I've ever received from the father., that I've ever received from the father., that I've ever received from the father., I um I've been praying over this word, I um I've been praying over this word, I um I've been praying over this word, for the last 24 hours before I gave it, for the last 24 hours before I gave it, for the last 24 hours before I gave it, to the public. I brought it to the some, to the public. I brought it to the some, to the public. I brought it to the some, people that I trust, some elders to, people that I trust, some elders to, people that I trust, some elders to, judge it, to pray over it. And um I sat, judge it, to pray over it. And um I sat, judge it, to pray over it. And um I sat, on the couch after he gave this word to, on the couch after he gave this word to, on the couch after he gave this word to, me. The very presence of the Lord filled, me. The very presence of the Lord filled, me. The very presence of the Lord filled, my home., my home., my home., It was all night long., It was all night long., It was all night long., The very atmosphere was charged with the, The very atmosphere was charged with the, The very atmosphere was charged with the, glory. And we sit until the morning, glory. And we sit until the morning, glory. And we sit until the morning, light. my son, my wife, and my daughter, light. my son, my wife, and my daughter, light. my son, my wife, and my daughter, and all just just basking in that, and all just just basking in that, and all just just basking in that, presence that was in our home. After, presence that was in our home. After, presence that was in our home. After, Jesus shows up, he leaves a um a, Jesus shows up, he leaves a um a, Jesus shows up, he leaves a um a, fragrance, fragrance, fragrance, and the angels that were with him. And, and the angels that were with him. And, and the angels that were with him. And, it was the most beautiful thing I I I, it was the most beautiful thing I I I, it was the most beautiful thing I I I, I've experienced in a while. And I I, I've experienced in a while. And I I, I've experienced in a while. And I I, just I am I'm I'm in awe of how, just I am I'm I'm in awe of how, just I am I'm I'm in awe of how, wonderful our Jesus is., wonderful our Jesus is., wonderful our Jesus is., But he gave me a word and he wants me to, But he gave me a word and he wants me to, But he gave me a word and he wants me to, tell you what he had to say., tell you what he had to say., tell you what he had to say., But I want to go over so it makes sense, But I want to go over so it makes sense, But I want to go over so it makes sense, where we are right now in the signs of, where we are right now in the signs of, where we are right now in the signs of, the times of the coming of the Lord, the times of the coming of the Lord, the times of the coming of the Lord, Jesus Christ., Jesus Christ., Jesus Christ., January the 14th, we gave a word from, January the 14th, we gave a word from, January the 14th, we gave a word from, the Lord that he gave us as we were, the Lord that he gave us as we were, the Lord that he gave us as we were, driving around praying over our city., driving around praying over our city., driving around praying over our city., And this is what he said. And I'm gonna, And this is what he said. And I'm gonna, And this is what he said. And I'm gonna, play it and I'm gonna I'm gonna stop my, play it and I'm gonna I'm gonna stop my, play it and I'm gonna I'm gonna stop my, son and and and I'm going to uh say some, son and and and I'm going to uh say some, son and and and I'm going to uh say some, more before I release what he said to us, more before I release what he said to us, more before I release what he said to us, last night. So Braden, do you want to go, last night. So Braden, do you want to go, last night. So Braden, do you want to go, ahead and play it?, &gt;&gt; Okay. Help me, Holy Ghost, because I, &gt;&gt; Okay. Help me, Holy Ghost, because I, have a lot here to tell you. Okay. Uh I, have a lot here to tell you. Okay. Uh I, have a lot here to tell you. Okay. Uh I, saw I saw the fork in the road going, saw I saw the fork in the road going, saw I saw the fork in the road going, like this. I saw President Trump in the, like this. I saw President Trump in the, like this. I saw President Trump in the, Valley of Decision and uh a major, Valley of Decision and uh a major, Valley of Decision and uh a major, escalation of war., escalation of war., escalation of war., Okay. And I I kept hearing World War II., Okay. And I I kept hearing World War II., Okay. And I I kept hearing World War II., This is the difference between the, This is the difference between the, This is the difference between the, decision that he makes and the in the, decision that he makes and the in the, decision that he makes and the in the, next couple of hours., next couple of hours., next couple of hours., Now, I know when I'm looking into the, Now, I know when I'm looking into the, Now, I know when I'm looking into the, spirit, it seems like it's right in, spirit, it seems like it's right in, spirit, it seems like it's right in, front of my face. Sometimes it could be, front of my face. Sometimes it could be, front of my face. Sometimes it could be, days away. What it's imminent. It could, days away. What it's imminent. It could, days away. What it's imminent. It could, be it could be a week. It could be two, be it could be a week. It could be two, be it could be a week. It could be two, weeks, you know, but I'm going to tell, weeks, you know, but I'm going to tell, weeks, you know, but I'm going to tell, you the urgency of the hour of what I'm, you the urgency of the hour of what I'm, you the urgency of the hour of what I'm, see because he's given us the two weeks., see because he's given us the two weeks., see because he's given us the two weeks., Remember I told you all two weeks, pray, Remember I told you all two weeks, pray, Remember I told you all two weeks, pray, over this next two weeks. This is the, over this next two weeks. This is the, over this next two weeks. This is the, pivotal time. So, this is what I saw. I, pivotal time. So, this is what I saw. I, pivotal time. So, this is what I saw. I, saw uh uh the Lord kept saying, "Push, saw uh uh the Lord kept saying, "Push, saw uh uh the Lord kept saying, "Push, the button, Trump. Push the button, the button, Trump. Push the button, the button, Trump. Push the button, Trump. You're running OUT OF TIME. PUSH, Trump. You're running OUT OF TIME. PUSH, Trump. You're running OUT OF TIME. PUSH, THE BUTTON.", THE BUTTON.", THE BUTTON.", And I could see him pushing the button, And I could see him pushing the button, And I could see him pushing the button, concerning the decision, praying over, concerning the decision, praying over, concerning the decision, praying over, the council that is influencing the, the council that is influencing the, the council that is influencing the, decision, decision, decision, because he has a a council board. And I, because he has a a council board. And I, because he has a a council board. And I, saw these people talking to him and I, saw these people talking to him and I, saw these people talking to him and I, saw Israel talking. I could see should I, saw Israel talking. I could see should I, saw Israel talking. I could see should I, say that I saw certain people that were, say that I saw certain people that were, say that I saw certain people that were, um intelligence. I can say that I saw, um intelligence. I can say that I saw, um intelligence. I can say that I saw, intelligence and praying over the secret, intelligence and praying over the secret, intelligence and praying over the secret, intelligence, intelligence, intelligence, praying over the the people that would, praying over the the people that would, praying over the the people that would, be in harm's way, be in harm's way, be in harm's way, because this was very important for the, because this was very important for the, because this was very important for the, secret intelligence to be protected., secret intelligence to be protected., secret intelligence to be protected., This was very very important, This was very very important, This was very very important, on both sides., on both sides., on both sides., As this was coming, I saw the Supreme, As this was coming, I saw the Supreme, As this was coming, I saw the Supreme, Court and the Lord showed me, Court and the Lord showed me, Court and the Lord showed me, remember I said we can't we can't allow, remember I said we can't we can't allow, remember I said we can't we can't allow, uh uh uh the the the tariffs not to, uh uh uh the the the tariffs not to, uh uh uh the the the tariffs not to, happen because that's the lifeblood of, happen because that's the lifeblood of, happen because that's the lifeblood of, what the plan is concerning the the, what the plan is concerning the the, what the plan is concerning the the, economy of America to allow uh uh the, economy of America to allow uh uh the, economy of America to allow uh uh the, the economy to flourish and to go to the, the economy to flourish and to go to the, the economy to flourish and to go to the, next level. it would help sustain us and, next level. it would help sustain us and, next level. it would help sustain us and, keeping him paddling from going over the, keeping him paddling from going over the, keeping him paddling from going over the, side of the the waterfall because the, side of the the waterfall because the, side of the the waterfall because the, economy was in trouble., economy was in trouble., economy was in trouble., And I saw the Supreme Court judges. Who, And I saw the Supreme Court judges. Who, And I saw the Supreme Court judges. Who, did we see? We saw the black man, the, did we see? We saw the black man, the, did we see? We saw the black man, the, African-American man, and we saw the, African-American man, and we saw the, African-American man, and we saw the, white man. And the Lord told us, "Pray, white man. And the Lord told us, "Pray, white man. And the Lord told us, "Pray, over those two judges." What is it about, over those two judges." What is it about, over those two judges." What is it about, those two judges? I saw Kim. And then, those two judges? I saw Kim. And then, those two judges? I saw Kim. And then, then I saw these faces. The Lord said, then I saw these faces. The Lord said, then I saw these faces. The Lord said, "Pray over these judges. This is a major, "Pray over these judges. This is a major, "Pray over these judges. This is a major, decision concerning the tariffs., So, I've been praying over this tariffs, So, I've been praying over this tariffs, because a plan B a plan B if we don't, because a plan B a plan B if we don't, because a plan B a plan B if we don't, have plan plan A is the tariffs. Plan B, have plan plan A is the tariffs. Plan B, have plan plan A is the tariffs. Plan B, is is is I saw trying to scramble of, is is is I saw trying to scramble of, is is is I saw trying to scramble of, what we can do to salvage the economy., what we can do to salvage the economy., what we can do to salvage the economy., How do we if we if this falls and we, How do we if we if this falls and we, How do we if we if this falls and we, have to pay back trillions of dollars to, have to pay back trillions of dollars to, have to pay back trillions of dollars to, these um countries, nations, what does, these um countries, nations, what does, these um countries, nations, what does, America do with their economy?, America do with their economy?, America do with their economy?, This is a very hard position., This is a very hard position., This is a very hard position., Okay. So, I saw this is this is vital., Okay. So, I saw this is this is vital., Okay. So, I saw this is this is vital., And some people go, "Well, Brian, I, And some people go, "Well, Brian, I, And some people go, "Well, Brian, I, don't I don't Hey, listen. We're in a, don't I don't Hey, listen. We're in a, don't I don't Hey, listen. We're in a, mess." And most of you don't realize how, mess." And most of you don't realize how, mess." And most of you don't realize how, big of a mess we're in., big of a mess we're in., big of a mess we're in., How big of a mess we're in. We're 34 or, How big of a mess we're in. We're 34 or, How big of a mess we're in. We're 34 or, more, $40 trillion in the hole., more, $40 trillion in the hole., more, $40 trillion in the hole., When you got $40 trillion worth of, When you got $40 trillion worth of, When you got $40 trillion worth of, credit card bills and and and debt, what, credit card bills and and and debt, what, credit card bills and and and debt, what, do you do? You have to have a Hail Mary, do you do? You have to have a Hail Mary, do you do? You have to have a Hail Mary, play., play., play., This is this is serious. This is do or, This is this is serious. This is do or, This is this is serious. This is do or, die. Do you understand where we're at?, die. Do you understand where we're at?, die. Do you understand where we're at?, Well, I don't believe all that. Then, Well, I don't believe all that. Then, Well, I don't believe all that. Then, you're ignorant., you're ignorant., you're ignorant., You don't know. And we're at the point, You don't know. And we're at the point, You don't know. And we're at the point, of we're paddling upstream and we're, of we're paddling upstream and we're, of we're paddling upstream and we're, against we're running against Niagara, against we're running against Niagara, against we're running against Niagara, Falls. And the Lord said we're at the, Falls. And the Lord said we're at the, Falls. And the Lord said we're at the, point of no return., point of no return., point of no return., I'm giving you a window of opportunity., I'm giving you a window of opportunity., I'm giving you a window of opportunity., And as I was praying today, I kept, And as I was praying today, I kept, And as I was praying today, I kept, hearing what did we we heard we we heard, hearing what did we we heard we we heard, hearing what did we we heard we we heard, um, um, um, the it there will be a wound, the it there will be a wound, the it there will be a wound, against America that will not be fatal., against America that will not be fatal., against America that will not be fatal., That will bring you it will bring people, That will bring you it will bring people, That will bring you it will bring people, to their knees to bring the bride by my, to their knees to bring the bride by my, to their knees to bring the bride by my, side., side., side., &gt;&gt; Pause. Now I saw what the wound was., The Lord showed me the wound today., The Lord showed me the wound today., It's very serious., It's very serious., It's very serious., And in the days ahead, I in the in the, And in the days ahead, I in the in the, And in the days ahead, I in the in the, in the minutes ahead, not in the days, in the minutes ahead, not in the days, in the minutes ahead, not in the days, ahead. In these couple minutes ahead, ahead. In these couple minutes ahead, ahead. In these couple minutes ahead, where you're remember the wound, the, where you're remember the wound, the, where you're remember the wound, the, wound that will not be fatal, wound that will not be fatal, wound that will not be fatal, that will bring the bride by my side., that will bring the bride by my side., that will bring the bride by my side., Don't forget that. That's very, Don't forget that. That's very, Don't forget that. That's very, important. I want you to highlight that., important. I want you to highlight that., important. I want you to highlight that., Write that down right now and think, Write that down right now and think, Write that down right now and think, about the wound that will not be fatal, about the wound that will not be fatal, about the wound that will not be fatal, to the church, to the church, to the church, that will bring the bride by my side., that will bring the bride by my side., that will bring the bride by my side., Okay? So, think about what I just said, Okay? So, think about what I just said, Okay? So, think about what I just said, right there by the Holy Ghost. The Holy, right there by the Holy Ghost. The Holy, right there by the Holy Ghost. The Holy, Spirit said that and I didn't know what, Spirit said that and I didn't know what, Spirit said that and I didn't know what, he was saying at time. What is a what is, he was saying at time. What is a what is, he was saying at time. What is a what is, a wound that is not fatal? What would be, a wound that is not fatal? What would be, a wound that is not fatal? What would be, a wound to the American church?, a wound to the American church?, a wound to the American church?, What would shake America? What would, What would shake America? What would, What would shake America? What would, bring them to their knees?, bring them to their knees?, bring them to their knees?, The church, the the the Republicans., The church, the the the Republicans., The church, the the the Republicans., What would do that? Now watch again, What would do that? Now watch again, What would do that? Now watch again, by my side. There's a shaking to awaken, by my side. There's a shaking to awaken, by my side. There's a shaking to awaken, with what's coming., with what's coming., with what's coming., And as I saw Greenland, I saw Venezuela, And as I saw Greenland, I saw Venezuela, And as I saw Greenland, I saw Venezuela, I saw uh uh the uprising of these the, I saw uh uh the uprising of these the, I saw uh uh the uprising of these the, the what what what what what Trump had a, the what what what what what Trump had a, the what what what what what Trump had a, plan, minerals, oil, plan, minerals, oil, plan, minerals, oil, again, praying over Iran, the the the, again, praying over Iran, the the the, again, praying over Iran, the the the, oil wells in Iran to be striking the oil, oil wells in Iran to be striking the oil, oil wells in Iran to be striking the oil, wells in Iran to the the bricks, wells in Iran to the the bricks, wells in Iran to the the bricks, nations., nations., nations., It's bigger than just the civilians on, It's bigger than just the civilians on, It's bigger than just the civilians on, the ground, the ground, the ground, doing this. This is much bigger than, doing this. This is much bigger than, doing this. This is much bigger than, civilians. Why? Why did the civilians, civilians. Why? Why did the civilians, civilians. Why? Why did the civilians, happen? Who Who instigated the civilians, happen? Who Who instigated the civilians, happen? Who Who instigated the civilians, uprising?, uprising?, uprising?, How'd that all happen? How'd it get so, How'd that all happen? How'd it get so, How'd that all happen? How'd it get so, big? It's much bigger than what I can, big? It's much bigger than what I can, big? It's much bigger than what I can, say online., say online., say online., It's much bigger than what I can relay, It's much bigger than what I can relay, It's much bigger than what I can relay, to you., to you., to you., You must think bigger. You must come up, You must think bigger. You must come up, You must think bigger. You must come up, higher in your prayer life with the, higher in your prayer life with the, higher in your prayer life with the, Lord. You can't pray the news. If you're, Lord. You can't pray the news. If you're, Lord. You can't pray the news. If you're, praying the news, you're too late. You, praying the news, you're too late. You, praying the news, you're too late. You, must come up higher in your authority of, must come up higher in your authority of, must come up higher in your authority of, the believer. That's why I try to, the believer. That's why I try to, the believer. That's why I try to, encourage you all the time to read books, encourage you all the time to read books, encourage you all the time to read books, like this about sister Sister sister, like this about sister Sister sister, like this about sister Sister sister, Billy and the believer's authority., Billy and the believer's authority., Billy and the believer's authority., &gt;&gt; Reading your authority and learning how, &gt;&gt; Reading your authority and learning how, &gt;&gt; Reading your authority and learning how, to operate in the authority of the, to operate in the authority of the, to operate in the authority of the, believer. I'm not getting a kickback of, believer. I'm not getting a kickback of, believer. I'm not getting a kickback of, of selling that trying to tell tell you, of selling that trying to tell tell you, of selling that trying to tell tell you, to buy this book. This is just something, to buy this book. This is just something, to buy this book. This is just something, that we practice every day of our life, that we practice every day of our life, that we practice every day of our life, and I'm trying to help you applying your, and I'm trying to help you applying your, and I'm trying to help you applying your, authority and learning how to go come up, authority and learning how to go come up, authority and learning how to go come up, higher. If you come up higher like an, higher. If you come up higher like an, higher. If you come up higher like an, eagle, you'll see what's coming. If, eagle, you'll see what's coming. If, eagle, you'll see what's coming. If, you're praying the news, you're already, you're praying the news, you're already, you're praying the news, you're already, too late. The news is old. We must be uh, too late. The news is old. We must be uh, too late. The news is old. We must be uh, like the watchman or the eagle that sees, like the watchman or the eagle that sees, like the watchman or the eagle that sees, WAY WAY FAR IN ADVANCE. They know what's, WAY WAY FAR IN ADVANCE. They know what's, WAY WAY FAR IN ADVANCE. They know what's, coming. They know when a storm's COMING., coming. They know when a storm's COMING., coming. They know when a storm's COMING., THEY KNOW WHERE THE FOOD'S AT. THEY KNOW, THEY KNOW WHERE THE FOOD'S AT. THEY KNOW, THEY KNOW WHERE THE FOOD'S AT. THEY KNOW, WHERE That's what we got to do with our, WHERE That's what we got to do with our, WHERE That's what we got to do with our, spiritual walk with the Lord., spiritual walk with the Lord., spiritual walk with the Lord., And that's what I'm telling you all by, And that's what I'm telling you all by, And that's what I'm telling you all by, the spirit of God right now. We're in, the spirit of God right now. We're in, the spirit of God right now. We're in, the valley of decision. So I saw a major, the valley of decision. So I saw a major, the valley of decision. So I saw a major, decision concerning Iran and the Lord, decision concerning Iran and the Lord, decision concerning Iran and the Lord, kept saying, "Push the button. Push the, kept saying, "Push the button. Push the, kept saying, "Push the button. Push the, button." I saw Russia, button." I saw Russia, button." I saw Russia, with with Putin with that with that with, with with Putin with that with that with, with with Putin with that with that with, Apolon circling him. I saw that demonic, Apolon circling him. I saw that demonic, Apolon circling him. I saw that demonic, spirit influencing his mind to escalate., spirit influencing his mind to escalate., spirit influencing his mind to escalate., And I heard weapons of war. Un, And I heard weapons of war. Un, And I heard weapons of war. Un, &gt;&gt; unconventional, &gt;&gt; unconventional, &gt;&gt; unconventional, &gt;&gt; unconventional weapons of war., &gt;&gt; unconventional weapons of war., &gt;&gt; unconventional weapons of war., Unconventional weapons of war. That's, Unconventional weapons of war. That's, Unconventional weapons of war. That's, what I was hearing today. Weapons of, what I was hearing today. Weapons of, what I was hearing today. Weapons of, war. And I saw the elders weeping, war. And I saw the elders weeping, war. And I saw the elders weeping, older people, grandmas, grandpas, uh, older people, grandmas, grandpas, uh, older people, grandmas, grandpas, uh, your great-grandmas that had walked, your great-grandmas that had walked, your great-grandmas that had walked, through the valley of war with World War, through the valley of war with World War, through the valley of war with World War, I, I mean World War II, Vietnam and uh, I, I mean World War II, Vietnam and uh, I, I mean World War II, Vietnam and uh, Korean War, these wars that they had, Korean War, these wars that they had, Korean War, these wars that they had, seen in their time and they remembered, seen in their time and they remembered, seen in their time and they remembered, it. And because they had walked, I saw a, it. And because they had walked, I saw a, it. And because they had walked, I saw a, major draft coming again., major draft coming again., major draft coming again., And I heard the elders say it. Do you, And I heard the elders say it. Do you, And I heard the elders say it. Do you, have it, love?, have it, love?, have it, love?, &gt;&gt; Uh where the the cold and engulfing, &gt;&gt; Uh where the the cold and engulfing, &gt;&gt; Uh where the the cold and engulfing, across the land. You may remember the, across the land. You may remember the, across the land. You may remember the, old will cry., old will cry., old will cry., &gt;&gt; Mhm., &gt;&gt; Mhm., &gt;&gt; Mhm., &gt;&gt; The graves., &gt;&gt; The graves., &gt;&gt; The graves., &gt;&gt; I saw graves. Graves. Graves. I I She, &gt;&gt; I saw graves. Graves. Graves. I I She, &gt;&gt; I saw graves. Graves. Graves. I I She, said I saw I said eight times. And it, said I saw I said eight times. And it, said I saw I said eight times. And it, was eight times. I saw graves across the, was eight times. I saw graves across the, was eight times. I saw graves across the, land in Europe. I saw an uprising and, land in Europe. I saw an uprising and, land in Europe. I saw an uprising and, war. Keep reading. You can help me find, war. Keep reading. You can help me find, war. Keep reading. You can help me find, things., things., things., &gt;&gt; A great war. The the great war, the, &gt;&gt; A great war. The the great war, the, &gt;&gt; A great war. The the great war, the, oceans, the resources in the midst., oceans, the resources in the midst., oceans, the resources in the midst., &gt;&gt; Okay. The resources. I saw an attack, &gt;&gt; Okay. The resources. I saw an attack, &gt;&gt; Okay. The resources. I saw an attack, against our resources from the supply, against our resources from the supply, against our resources from the supply, chain coming out of China. Again, as an, chain coming out of China. Again, as an, chain coming out of China. Again, as an, escalation of things was uh taking off, escalation of things was uh taking off, escalation of things was uh taking off, I saw uh the boats coming from China, I saw uh the boats coming from China, I saw uh the boats coming from China, these trade wars and and and medicines, these trade wars and and and medicines, these trade wars and and and medicines, and and supplies for hospitals, things, and and supplies for hospitals, things, and and supplies for hospitals, things, were in trouble, were in trouble, were in trouble, as an escalation of war and I saw supply, as an escalation of war and I saw supply, as an escalation of war and I saw supply, chain of food. I saw the supply chain of, chain of food. I saw the supply chain of, chain of food. I saw the supply chain of, things that that uh Europe was upset., things that that uh Europe was upset., things that that uh Europe was upset., Europe. I remember I told you I saw uh, Europe. I remember I told you I saw uh, Europe. I remember I told you I saw uh, uh Mcronone coming on the scene upset, uh Mcronone coming on the scene upset, uh Mcronone coming on the scene upset, about Greenland. I saw and it was an, about Greenland. I saw and it was an, about Greenland. I saw and it was an, escalation of on all fronts., escalation of on all fronts., escalation of on all fronts., So we see Mcronone today being very, So we see Mcronone today being very, So we see Mcronone today being very, upset with Trump as Trump humiliated, upset with Trump as Trump humiliated, upset with Trump as Trump humiliated, Mcronone about his sunglasses. And we, Mcronone about his sunglasses. And we, Mcronone about his sunglasses. And we, know that uh Mcronone hurt his eye or, know that uh Mcronone hurt his eye or, know that uh Mcronone hurt his eye or, his blood vessel bust in his eye and he, his blood vessel bust in his eye and he, his blood vessel bust in his eye and he, was covering it up and uh and he was, was covering it up and uh and he was, was covering it up and uh and he was, being teased by uh President Trump, being teased by uh President Trump, being teased by uh President Trump, and then we heard him say something, and then we heard him say something, and then we heard him say something, about joining the it might be time for, about joining the it might be time for, about joining the it might be time for, us to consider joining the bricks, us to consider joining the bricks, us to consider joining the bricks, in his speech., in his speech., in his speech., Joining up with Russia., Joining up with Russia., Joining up with Russia., Remember, Remember, Remember, what I'm about to show you in just a, what I'm about to show you in just a, what I'm about to show you in just a, second. Remember that and what I'm about, second. Remember that and what I'm about, second. Remember that and what I'm about, to show you and what the Lord said. So, to show you and what the Lord said. So, to show you and what the Lord said. So, Mcronone and Russia., Mcronone and Russia., Mcronone and Russia., Okay, look at this. We might just, Okay, look at this. We might just, Okay, look at this. We might just, consider joining up the bricks, which is, consider joining up the bricks, which is, consider joining up the bricks, which is, Russia and their plan splitting away, Russia and their plan splitting away, Russia and their plan splitting away, from the dollar, a new thing, right? So, from the dollar, a new thing, right? So, from the dollar, a new thing, right? So, remember that because you're going to, remember that because you're going to, remember that because you're going to, you'll need that for in a little bit. Go, a major es escalation on all fronts., a major es escalation on all fronts., But Trump was in the valley of the, But Trump was in the valley of the, But Trump was in the valley of the, decision., decision., decision., And that's why we must pray for him, And that's why we must pray for him, And that's why we must pray for him, tonight concerning the decisions that he, tonight concerning the decisions that he, tonight concerning the decisions that he, will make in the near uh in the days, will make in the near uh in the days, will make in the near uh in the days, ahead. These are major decisions that, ahead. These are major decisions that, ahead. These are major decisions that, he's about to that will that seriously, he's about to that will that seriously, he's about to that will that seriously, this will alter uh everything. It will, this will alter uh everything. It will, this will alter uh everything. It will, change everything the course of, change everything the course of, change everything the course of, everything. But uh we must pray that he, everything. But uh we must pray that he, everything. But uh we must pray that he, makes the precise one by the hol leading, makes the precise one by the hol leading, makes the precise one by the hol leading, of the Holy Spirit. That he's not led by, of the Holy Spirit. That he's not led by, of the Holy Spirit. That he's not led by, flesh. He's not led by uh uh uh your, flesh. He's not led by uh uh uh your, flesh. He's not led by uh uh uh your, carnal mind. You're led filled with, carnal mind. You're led filled with, carnal mind. You're led filled with, controlled by the Holy Ghost in these, controlled by the Holy Ghost in these, controlled by the Holy Ghost in these, last days. And the pressure that he's, last days. And the pressure that he's, last days. And the pressure that he's, having with all the demonic and what's, having with all the demonic and what's, having with all the demonic and what's, going on. Are we backing him enough in, going on. Are we backing him enough in, going on. Are we backing him enough in, prayer, church?, prayer, church?, prayer, church?, This should be bathed in in praying in, This should be bathed in in praying in, This should be bathed in in praying in, tongues. Pray without ceasing. Pray in, tongues. Pray without ceasing. Pray in, tongues. Pray without ceasing. Pray in, the night. Pray in the day. Pray for our, the night. Pray in the day. Pray for our, the night. Pray in the day. Pray for our, nation. We're in the valley of decision., nation. We're in the valley of decision., nation. We're in the valley of decision., I told you a red dawn experience was in, I told you a red dawn experience was in, I told you a red dawn experience was in, our nation. I told you we have an enemy, our nation. I told you we have an enemy, our nation. I told you we have an enemy, within that came over from the Biden, within that came over from the Biden, within that came over from the Biden, administration. And I'm not here to, administration. And I'm not here to, administration. And I'm not here to, preach fear, but I'm trying to tell you, preach fear, but I'm trying to tell you, preach fear, but I'm trying to tell you, to prepare you that we have an enemy, to prepare you that we have an enemy, to prepare you that we have an enemy, within. Praying over Taiwan, praying, within. Praying over Taiwan, praying, within. Praying over Taiwan, praying, over uh this escalation of things that, over uh this escalation of things that, over uh this escalation of things that, I've seen coming. Okay. What was it?, I've seen coming. Okay. What was it?, I've seen coming. Okay. What was it?, This is, This is, This is, &gt;&gt; great great war in a day. It's a, &gt;&gt; great great war in a day. It's a, &gt;&gt; great great war in a day. It's a, trigger. It's about Greenland. It's, trigger. It's about Greenland. It's, trigger. It's about Greenland. It's, about Greenland. It's, about Greenland. It's, about Greenland. It's, &gt;&gt; in trouble., &gt;&gt; in trouble., &gt;&gt; in trouble., &gt;&gt; The dollar's in trouble., &gt;&gt; The dollar's in trouble., &gt;&gt; The dollar's in trouble., &gt;&gt; Politicians remain silent and the, &gt;&gt; Politicians remain silent and the, &gt;&gt; Politicians remain silent and the, Democrats, they know the dollar's in, Democrats, they know the dollar's in, Democrats, they know the dollar's in, trouble if they don't pass the tariffs, trouble if they don't pass the tariffs, trouble if they don't pass the tariffs, out of desperation and pride. The heads, out of desperation and pride. The heads, out of desperation and pride. The heads, will roll in the night. Remember I told, will roll in the night. Remember I told, will roll in the night. Remember I told, you an escalation, an acceleration, you, you an escalation, an acceleration, you, you an escalation, an acceleration, you, will see to bring them to their knee., will see to bring them to their knee., will see to bring them to their knee., &gt;&gt; They will either come by myself., &gt;&gt; They will either come by myself., &gt;&gt; They will either come by myself., &gt;&gt; That's fine. I'm going to move on. Okay., &gt;&gt; That's fine. I'm going to move on. Okay., &gt;&gt; That's fine. I'm going to move on. Okay., So, I'm going to go to the vision that I, So, I'm going to go to the vision that I, So, I'm going to go to the vision that I, saw last time I was with you on Sunday, saw last time I was with you on Sunday, saw last time I was with you on Sunday, night, night, night, right? Monday night. Monday night. I saw, right? Monday night. Monday night. I saw, right? Monday night. Monday night. I saw, a lot that night. And so I saw uh, a lot that night. And so I saw uh, a lot that night. And so I saw uh, Capitol Hill. I saw JD Vance that was, Capitol Hill. I saw JD Vance that was, Capitol Hill. I saw JD Vance that was, black and white. Okay. He was black and, black and white. Okay. He was black and, black and white. Okay. He was black and, white, but he had a humongous head that, white, but he had a humongous head that, white, but he had a humongous head that, had a very skinny neck and his neck was, had a very skinny neck and his neck was, had a very skinny neck and his neck was, not able to to balance his head. And he, not able to to balance his head. And he, not able to to balance his head. And he, looked like his head was just bobbling, looked like his head was just bobbling, looked like his head was just bobbling, all around. But he was fighting on, all around. But he was fighting on, all around. But he was fighting on, Capitol Hill, standing up there looking, Capitol Hill, standing up there looking, Capitol Hill, standing up there looking, at the White House, but he had a massive, at the White House, but he had a massive, at the White House, but he had a massive, head., head., head., Okay? And he was in a black and white, Okay? And he was in a black and white, Okay? And he was in a black and white, suit., suit., suit., As I was looking at the at the Capitol, As I was looking at the at the Capitol, As I was looking at the at the Capitol, Hill, a massive peacock, Hill, a massive peacock, Hill, a massive peacock, that came down on the point of the the, that came down on the point of the the, that came down on the point of the the, top of the the the dome of the Capitol, top of the the the dome of the Capitol, top of the the the dome of the Capitol, curled its head down and looked down at, curled its head down and looked down at, curled its head down and looked down at, the at the ground at towards JD Vance, the at the ground at towards JD Vance, the at the ground at towards JD Vance, was looking at him. But as the the, was looking at him. But as the the, was looking at him. But as the the, peacock was down, I could see the, peacock was down, I could see the, peacock was down, I could see the, feathers, but they were not arched up in, feathers, but they were not arched up in, feathers, but they were not arched up in, a beautiful, you know, a peacock does, a beautiful, you know, a peacock does, a beautiful, you know, a peacock does, that., that., that., But the feathers were down by the, But the feathers were down by the, But the feathers were down by the, peacock and it was looking in it and it, peacock and it was looking in it and it, peacock and it was looking in it and it, curled down and it was it was it had, curled down and it was it was it had, curled down and it was it was it had, some some kind of light on this peacock, some some kind of light on this peacock, some some kind of light on this peacock, that looked like sparkles., that looked like sparkles., that looked like sparkles., But the but the but the peacock was, But the but the but the peacock was, But the but the but the peacock was, looked like it was being humbled., looked like it was being humbled., looked like it was being humbled., It looked like it was being humbled., It looked like it was being humbled., It looked like it was being humbled., There was something going on with this, There was something going on with this, There was something going on with this, peacock and why the peacock was cowering, peacock and why the peacock was cowering, peacock and why the peacock was cowering, down to the presence of the Lord., down to the presence of the Lord., down to the presence of the Lord., It was it was like it was reverence but, It was it was like it was reverence but, It was it was like it was reverence but, it was being this humility was coming on, it was being this humility was coming on, it was being this humility was coming on, this peacock., this peacock., this peacock., His head was bowed down low but it was, His head was bowed down low but it was, His head was bowed down low but it was, looking the peacock started looking at, looking the peacock started looking at, looking the peacock started looking at, the big-headed bobblehead, the big-headed bobblehead, the big-headed bobblehead, and the bobblehead was looking at our, and the bobblehead was looking at our, and the bobblehead was looking at our, president. Our president there was a, president. Our president there was a, president. Our president there was a, massive storm, massive storm, massive storm, that was all around the White House., that was all around the White House., that was all around the White House., Lightning was going all around him. I, Lightning was going all around him. I, Lightning was going all around him. I, could see lightning outside. He was busy, could see lightning outside. He was busy, could see lightning outside. He was busy, at his desk. Arched over the resolute, at his desk. Arched over the resolute, at his desk. Arched over the resolute, desk., desk., desk., He was arched over and he was writing, He was arched over and he was writing, He was arched over and he was writing, very diligently on some kind of book and, very diligently on some kind of book and, very diligently on some kind of book and, he was writing writing writing and he, he was writing writing writing and he, he was writing writing writing and he, was had so much focus looking and and he, was had so much focus looking and and he, was had so much focus looking and and he, didn't even know what was going on, didn't even know what was going on, didn't even know what was going on, around him. It didn't look like because, around him. It didn't look like because, around him. It didn't look like because, task at hand., task at hand., task at hand., &gt;&gt; And I remember what I'm about to say, &gt;&gt; And I remember what I'm about to say, &gt;&gt; And I remember what I'm about to say, right here about the devil coming out, right here about the devil coming out, right here about the devil coming out, and poking his brain. Remember I said, and poking his brain. Remember I said, and poking his brain. Remember I said, there was a there was a bird that was, there was a there was a bird that was, there was a there was a bird that was, hiding in the corner that was a demon, hiding in the corner that was a demon, hiding in the corner that was a demon, that was assigned to cause confusion in, that was assigned to cause confusion in, that was assigned to cause confusion in, his head and it was pe pe pe pe pe pe pe, pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe, pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe, pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe, pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe, pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pecking his skull, pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pecking his skull, pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pecking his skull, and it would before a watchman could see, and it would before a watchman could see, and it would before a watchman could see, it, it, it, he would hide before he could the prayer, he would hide before he could the prayer, he would hide before he could the prayer, warriors could see it he would hide he, warriors could see it he would hide he, warriors could see it he would hide he, was hiding he was he was being cloaked, was hiding he was he was being cloaked, was hiding he was he was being cloaked, and he was pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe, and he was pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe, and he was pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe, pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe, pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe, pe pe pe pe pe and he, pe pe pe pe pe and he, pe pe pe pe pe and he, pe, pe, pe, and remember that. Okay, this is, and remember that. Okay, this is, and remember that. Okay, this is, important. Listen, because these all, important. Listen, because these all, important. Listen, because these all, these things, these things, these things, that the Lord has given us in the past, that the Lord has given us in the past, that the Lord has given us in the past, over the last two weeks, he said, "Pray, over the last two weeks, he said, "Pray, over the last two weeks, he said, "Pray, over this time frame." Listen where we, over this time frame." Listen where we, over this time frame." Listen where we, are. It's he what he said yet. I'm, are. It's he what he said yet. I'm, are. It's he what he said yet. I'm, holding the church accountable for, holding the church accountable for, holding the church accountable for, what's about to take place, what's about to take place, what's about to take place, for there has not been enough prayer, for there has not been enough prayer, for there has not been enough prayer, concerning the president of the United, concerning the president of the United, concerning the president of the United, States of America., States of America., States of America., And when I went back to what he told me, And when I went back to what he told me, And when I went back to what he told me, and he said, "Brandon, I want you to, and he said, "Brandon, I want you to, and he said, "Brandon, I want you to, stop focusing on the what I'm showing, stop focusing on the what I'm showing, stop focusing on the what I'm showing, you about what's coming and attack what, you about what's coming and attack what, you about what's coming and attack what, I have given you in the spirit realm., I have given you in the spirit realm., I have given you in the spirit realm., And I said, 'Lord, what's going on?' He, And I said, 'Lord, what's going on?' He, And I said, 'Lord, what's going on?' He, said, 'They're not praying over what, said, 'They're not praying over what, said, 'They're not praying over what, you're giving, what I'm giving you to, you're giving, what I'm giving you to, you're giving, what I'm giving you to, give them., give them., give them., This is the most intense and most, This is the most intense and most, This is the most intense and most, important, important, important, assignments that the body of Christ of, assignments that the body of Christ of, assignments that the body of Christ of, America and a world has ever had before., America and a world has ever had before., America and a world has ever had before., Right now, where we are in these end, Right now, where we are in these end, Right now, where we are in these end, times, times, times, that's what he was showing me. And when, that's what he was showing me. And when, that's what he was showing me. And when, you hear what he said to me 24 hours, you hear what he said to me 24 hours, you hear what he said to me 24 hours, ago, well, my God help us. So go ahead and, well, my God help us. So go ahead and, and are we almost done? I think, and are we almost done? I think, and are we almost done? I think, remember JD Vance, remember the peacock?, remember JD Vance, remember the peacock?, remember JD Vance, remember the peacock?, Marco Rubio was at the corner of the the, Marco Rubio was at the corner of the the, Marco Rubio was at the corner of the the, the steps below that. I didn't I forgot, the steps below that. I didn't I forgot, the steps below that. I didn't I forgot, to say this during this. Marco Rubio was, to say this during this. Marco Rubio was, to say this during this. Marco Rubio was, there. Is that okay?, there. Is that okay?, there. Is that okay?, &gt;&gt; I know you say it later, but it's not., &gt;&gt; I know you say it later, but it's not., &gt;&gt; I know you say it later, but it's not., So, just keep going., So, just keep going., So, just keep going., &gt;&gt; Marco Rubio was down in there with his, &gt;&gt; Marco Rubio was down in there with his, &gt;&gt; Marco Rubio was down in there with his, eyes bulged out and they were darting, eyes bulged out and they were darting, eyes bulged out and they were darting, back and forth looking at JD Vance with, back and forth looking at JD Vance with, back and forth looking at JD Vance with, his bobblehead, a huge head. His neck, his bobblehead, a huge head. His neck, his bobblehead, a huge head. His neck, was not strong looking at the, was not strong looking at the, was not strong looking at the, presidency. Now go ahead, baby., presidency. Now go ahead, baby., presidency. Now go ahead, baby., Window of the White House from outside, Window of the White House from outside, Window of the White House from outside, of the White House lawn. And I could see, of the White House lawn. And I could see, of the White House lawn. And I could see, our president writing on the desk, our president writing on the desk, our president writing on the desk, writing this, writing, writing, writing, writing this, writing, writing, writing, writing this, writing, writing, writing, writing., writing., writing., And I know it was type it was a it was, And I know it was type it was a it was, And I know it was type it was a it was, not it's type of shadow. The Lord's, not it's type of shadow. The Lord's, not it's type of shadow. The Lord's, trying to warn, you know, through a, trying to warn, you know, through a, trying to warn, you know, through a, vision. It's not I don't really believe, vision. It's not I don't really believe, vision. It's not I don't really believe, there's a peacock on there, of course, there's a peacock on there, of course, there's a peacock on there, of course, you know, and there and and and JD Vanto, you know, and there and and and JD Vanto, you know, and there and and and JD Vanto, got ahead like that, but it's something, got ahead like that, but it's something, got ahead like that, but it's something, the Lord's trying to warn us about. As I, the Lord's trying to warn us about. As I, the Lord's trying to warn us about. As I, saw a storm that was so massive and so, saw a storm that was so massive and so, saw a storm that was so massive and so, so huge behind the uh the uh Congress, so huge behind the uh the uh Congress, so huge behind the uh the uh Congress, there was a massive storm around, there was a massive storm around, there was a massive storm around, Congress. There was a massive storm, Congress. There was a massive storm, Congress. There was a massive storm, around JD Vance and he and and he was, around JD Vance and he and and he was, around JD Vance and he and and he was, the only thing that was in black and, the only thing that was in black and, the only thing that was in black and, white. He looked like in one of those, white. He looked like in one of those, white. He looked like in one of those, old timey movies, even., even., All right. So, here we go., All right. So, here we go., All right. So, here we go., Is it good? So, what's my watch my, Is it good? So, what's my watch my, Is it good? So, what's my watch my, count?, So, here we go. This is what I saw. The, So, here we go. This is what I saw. The, Lord Jesus came and he told me, he said, Lord Jesus came and he told me, he said, Lord Jesus came and he told me, he said, "Your president is about to be taken out, "Your president is about to be taken out, "Your president is about to be taken out, by an assassin.", by an assassin.", by an assassin.", He said, "I bl" He said, "I hold the, He said, "I bl" He said, "I hold the, He said, "I bl" He said, "I hold the, church accountable for what is about to, church accountable for what is about to, church accountable for what is about to, take place in this nation.", And as I was sitting here, And as I was sitting here, I saw the whole thing pan out in front, I saw the whole thing pan out in front, I saw the whole thing pan out in front, of me. He showed the whole thing. The, of me. He showed the whole thing. The, of me. He showed the whole thing. The, angels were behind him. The glory come, angels were behind him. The glory come, angels were behind him. The glory come, in my house. And I started yelling. I, in my house. And I started yelling. I, in my house. And I started yelling. I, said, "Lord," I said, "How how how did, said, "Lord," I said, "How how how did, said, "Lord," I said, "How how how did, this hap? How is this going to happen?, this hap? How is this going to happen?, this hap? How is this going to happen?, We have prayed for this man. We have, We have prayed for this man. We have, We have prayed for this man. We have, interceded. We have stood on in the gap., interceded. We have stood on in the gap., interceded. We have stood on in the gap., We've done every I I" And he said, "The, We've done every I I" And he said, "The, We've done every I I" And he said, "The, church as a whole.", church as a whole.", church as a whole.", You're not the church BY YOURSELF, You're not the church BY YOURSELF, You're not the church BY YOURSELF, BRENNAN. THEIR CHANNEL IS NOT THE CHURCH, BRENNAN. THEIR CHANNEL IS NOT THE CHURCH, BRENNAN. THEIR CHANNEL IS NOT THE CHURCH, BY ITSELF. THE CHURCH AS A MASS HOLE., BY ITSELF. THE CHURCH AS A MASS HOLE., BY ITSELF. THE CHURCH AS A MASS HOLE., He said, "Pride has come in his heart.", He said, "Pride has come in his heart.", He said, "Pride has come in his heart.", Pride has come in and he has opened a, Pride has come in and he has opened a, Pride has come in and he has opened a, door through council of ungodly people, door through council of ungodly people, door through council of ungodly people, and advi advising him on what to do, and advi advising him on what to do, and advi advising him on what to do, concerning the nations., concerning the nations., concerning the nations., And because he has opened this door from, And because he has opened this door from, And because he has opened this door from, counsel and that demonic spirit that I, counsel and that demonic spirit that I, counsel and that demonic spirit that I, saw poking his brain influencing his, saw poking his brain influencing his, saw poking his brain influencing his, thoughts, thoughts, thoughts, the church is supposed to pray., the church is supposed to pray., the church is supposed to pray., And the Lord showed me, And the Lord showed me, And the Lord showed me, decisions that were being made were not, decisions that were being made were not, decisions that were being made were not, what he wanted. And because of these, what he wanted. And because of these, what he wanted. And because of these, decisions, it was opening a door for a, decisions, it was opening a door for a, decisions, it was opening a door for a, demonic attack., demonic attack., demonic attack., As I saw this and I saw pride fill his, As I saw this and I saw pride fill his, As I saw this and I saw pride fill his, heart and I saw arrogance starting to, heart and I saw arrogance starting to, heart and I saw arrogance starting to, slip into him, I saw a covering that was, slip into him, I saw a covering that was, slip into him, I saw a covering that was, not covering him on his front side., not covering him on his front side., not covering him on his front side., He was coming down. It looked like Air, He was coming down. It looked like Air, He was coming down. It looked like Air, Force One or something. And I saw a man, Force One or something. And I saw a man, Force One or something. And I saw a man, a long ways away with a 50 caliber, a long ways away with a 50 caliber, a long ways away with a 50 caliber, uh weapon that had a scope on it that, uh weapon that had a scope on it that, uh weapon that had a scope on it that, big. He had a black stalking hat., big. He had a black stalking hat., big. He had a black stalking hat., He had black shirt, black pants, back, He had black shirt, black pants, back, He had black shirt, black pants, back, black combat boots. and he was laying on, black combat boots. and he was laying on, black combat boots. and he was laying on, his belly, his belly, his belly, focusing in. When I saw this incident, focusing in. When I saw this incident, focusing in. When I saw this incident, happen, happen, happen, I saw the the projectile go through his, I saw the the projectile go through his, I saw the the projectile go through his, body and almost make him in like it was, body and almost make him in like it was, body and almost make him in like it was, it was awful. The Secret Service didn't, it was awful. The Secret Service didn't, it was awful. The Secret Service didn't, even know in this thing where where to, even know in this thing where where to, even know in this thing where where to, go. And I'm telling you, this is this is, go. And I'm telling you, this is this is, go. And I'm telling you, this is this is, very serious to me. And I've I've, very serious to me. And I've I've, very serious to me. And I've I've, telling you all this is very hard to, telling you all this is very hard to, telling you all this is very hard to, even talk about this, but I feel by the, even talk about this, but I feel by the, even talk about this, but I feel by the, spirit of God, we must pray. And I, spirit of God, we must pray. And I, spirit of God, we must pray. And I, believe we can we can stop this. I want, believe we can we can stop this. I want, believe we can we can stop this. I want, to say that I'm a watchman. And even, to say that I'm a watchman. And even, to say that I'm a watchman. And even, with the ear and everything that the, with the ear and everything that the, with the ear and everything that the, Lord has showed me, it's been very, Lord has showed me, it's been very, Lord has showed me, it's been very, precise. I believe concerning this man's, precise. I believe concerning this man's, precise. I believe concerning this man's, life and praying for our economy, life and praying for our economy, life and praying for our economy, praying for the things that I have seen., praying for the things that I have seen., praying for the things that I have seen., And I love him. I love his family. And I, And I love him. I love his family. And I, And I love him. I love his family. And I, and I and I'm not here to I I I want to, and I and I'm not here to I I I want to, and I and I'm not here to I I I want to, make that very clear because I know I, make that very clear because I know I, make that very clear because I know I, have uh law enforcement watching me, but, have uh law enforcement watching me, but, have uh law enforcement watching me, but, this is a very serious thing. I brought, this is a very serious thing. I brought, this is a very serious thing. I brought, it to the elders of the church to pray., it to the elders of the church to pray., it to the elders of the church to pray., And this this is exactly what I have, And this this is exactly what I have, And this this is exactly what I have, seen. And I and I bring the good, the, seen. And I and I bring the good, the, seen. And I and I bring the good, the, bad, the ugly. I always do. And I'm I'm, bad, the ugly. I always do. And I'm I'm, bad, the ugly. I always do. And I'm I'm, I'm precise. I don't add to anything and, I'm precise. I don't add to anything and, I'm precise. I don't add to anything and, I do not take away anything from it. But, I do not take away anything from it. But, I do not take away anything from it. But, as I saw what I saw, as I saw what I saw, as I saw what I saw, I saw a a a a a this this scope on this, I saw a a a a a this this scope on this, I saw a a a a a this this scope on this, this this firearm that was that big. It, this this firearm that was that big. It, this this firearm that was that big. It, was huge. And he was from a long ways., was huge. And he was from a long ways., was huge. And he was from a long ways., And he was he was he was military, And he was he was he was military, And he was he was he was military, trained and he was Russian., trained and he was Russian., trained and he was Russian., And he was I saw Mcronone and him, And he was I saw Mcronone and him, And he was I saw Mcronone and him, negotiating and talking things through., negotiating and talking things through., negotiating and talking things through., And it was Mcronone in Russian, And it was Mcronone in Russian, And it was Mcronone in Russian, government., government., government., God help me., God help me., God help me., When this happened, I saw the Secret, When this happened, I saw the Secret, When this happened, I saw the Secret, Service looking everywhere. They, Service looking everywhere. They, Service looking everywhere. They, couldn't see how far it came or how it, couldn't see how far it came or how it, couldn't see how far it came or how it, happened. And they were in a panic on, happened. And they were in a panic on, happened. And they were in a panic on, the ground and I could I watched the, the ground and I could I watched the, the ground and I could I watched the, whole thing happen., I saw immediately World War III pan, I saw immediately World War III pan, across my face and a major war broke out, across my face and a major war broke out, across my face and a major war broke out, in in Europe, in in Europe, in in Europe, of likes we've never seen before., It was a retaliation immediately for, It was a retaliation immediately for, what just happened to our leader., It was the most awful bombardment of, It was the most awful bombardment of, missile strike because of what he has, missile strike because of what he has, missile strike because of what he has, set in place if anything ever happens to, set in place if anything ever happens to, set in place if anything ever happens to, him to retaliate immediately with, him to retaliate immediately with, him to retaliate immediately with, vicious force., vicious force., vicious force., And when this happened, I saw a, And when this happened, I saw a, And when this happened, I saw a, bombardment of which we've never seen, bombardment of which we've never seen, bombardment of which we've never seen, before of any any generation., before of any any generation., before of any any generation., with conventional weapons. Like I told, with conventional weapons. Like I told, with conventional weapons. Like I told, you, a wound, you, a wound, you, a wound, that will not be fatal to the the, that will not be fatal to the the, that will not be fatal to the the, church, but it will bring the bride to, church, but it will bring the bride to, church, but it will bring the bride to, the side. It will shake the nations. It, the side. It will shake the nations. It, the side. It will shake the nations. It, will shake things., will shake things., will shake things., As I have prayed over this, I saw uh JD, As I have prayed over this, I saw uh JD, As I have prayed over this, I saw uh JD, Vance, Vance, Vance, walking through oak trees., walking through oak trees., walking through oak trees., They were black as onx. They were all, They were black as onx. They were all, They were black as onx. They were all, spread out., spread out., spread out., And every single oak tree was the same, And every single oak tree was the same, And every single oak tree was the same, the same around, same height., the same around, same height., the same around, same height., And they were all barren with no leaves, And they were all barren with no leaves, And they were all barren with no leaves, on them at all., on them at all., on them at all., It looked like something that had been, It looked like something that had been, It looked like something that had been, charred by some kind of volcanic fire or, charred by some kind of volcanic fire or, charred by some kind of volcanic fire or, some kind of something that the trees, some kind of something that the trees, some kind of something that the trees, were dead, but they were all identical., were dead, but they were all identical., were dead, but they were all identical., and they looked all around him and he, and they looked all around him and he, and they looked all around him and he, walked through these trees., walked through these trees., walked through these trees., There was white snow or whatever this, There was white snow or whatever this, There was white snow or whatever this, was all over the ground. He was wearing, was all over the ground. He was wearing, was all over the ground. He was wearing, a black trench coat that went to the the, a black trench coat that went to the the, a black trench coat that went to the the, mid of his uh calf similar to what he, mid of his uh calf similar to what he, mid of his uh calf similar to what he, wears. It looked like a black blue, like, wears. It looked like a black blue, like, wears. It looked like a black blue, like, a dark blue, but I couldn't really tell, a dark blue, but I couldn't really tell, a dark blue, but I couldn't really tell, because he was black and white. The, because he was black and white. The, because he was black and white. The, trees were black. They all look the, trees were black. They all look the, trees were black. They all look the, same., same., same., And I think each tree represented a, And I think each tree represented a, And I think each tree represented a, year., I believe for what I have seen there was, I believe for what I have seen there was, at least six to seven trees. I'm still, at least six to seven trees. I'm still, at least six to seven trees. I'm still, trying to go over it and over and over, trying to go over it and over and over, trying to go over it and over and over, in my in my spirit. Lord, show me how, in my in my spirit. Lord, show me how, in my in my spirit. Lord, show me how, many trees that was and what did the, many trees that was and what did the, many trees that was and what did the, trees represent because I know it was, trees represent because I know it was, trees represent because I know it was, metaphor. There was something to this., metaphor. There was something to this., metaphor. There was something to this., As I saw him walking through the snow in, As I saw him walking through the snow in, As I saw him walking through the snow in, these trees, he went to the the White, these trees, he went to the the White, these trees, he went to the the White, House and he sat down behind the desk., House and he sat down behind the desk., House and he sat down behind the desk., He had a look on his face, not a smirk, He had a look on his face, not a smirk, He had a look on his face, not a smirk, not a uh grin, but he just kind of, not a uh grin, but he just kind of, not a uh grin, but he just kind of, looking as I saw his wife pregnant with, looking as I saw his wife pregnant with, looking as I saw his wife pregnant with, a baby., a baby., a baby., She was big and pregnant. Her belly, She was big and pregnant. Her belly, She was big and pregnant. Her belly, button was sticking through her clothes, button was sticking through her clothes, button was sticking through her clothes, because of how pregnant she was., because of how pregnant she was., because of how pregnant she was., She was standing behind the door, She was standing behind the door, She was standing behind the door, listening to the conversation that her, listening to the conversation that her, listening to the conversation that her, husband was having. She had a Hindu, husband was having. She had a Hindu, husband was having. She had a Hindu, looking outfit on that was pink with, looking outfit on that was pink with, looking outfit on that was pink with, outline embroidery with a green um a, outline embroidery with a green um a, outline embroidery with a green um a, green uh like John Deere color belt on., green uh like John Deere color belt on., green uh like John Deere color belt on., It was pinks with greens and it was, It was pinks with greens and it was, It was pinks with greens and it was, yellow and it was it looked like, yellow and it was it looked like, yellow and it was it looked like, something of Middle Eastern descent like, something of Middle Eastern descent like, something of Middle Eastern descent like, a like a Hindu like um, a like a Hindu like um, a like a Hindu like um, Shaw. Her face was not veiled., Shaw. Her face was not veiled., Shaw. Her face was not veiled., It was a it was a pink outfit, It was a it was a pink outfit, It was a it was a pink outfit, as I watch this and I say this very, as I watch this and I say this very, as I watch this and I say this very, carefully because I'm I'm just telling, carefully because I'm I'm just telling, carefully because I'm I'm just telling, you what I saw in this visitation that I, you what I saw in this visitation that I, you what I saw in this visitation that I, had with Jesus. Okay, this is where the, had with Jesus. Okay, this is where the, had with Jesus. Okay, this is where the, I I I I'm I'm cautious. I'm not I'm not, I I I I'm I'm cautious. I'm not I'm not, I I I I'm I'm cautious. I'm not I'm not, accusing anything, but I'm just telling, accusing anything, but I'm just telling, accusing anything, but I'm just telling, you I'm not adding to and I'm not taking, you I'm not adding to and I'm not taking, you I'm not adding to and I'm not taking, fra away from anything. I saw these this, fra away from anything. I saw these this, fra away from anything. I saw these this, couch., couch., couch., Can you show that, Erica, Erica, was sitting on that couch?, was sitting on that couch?, was sitting on that couch?, She had a nice suit on. Looked like, She had a nice suit on. Looked like, She had a nice suit on. Looked like, something like St. John's or something, something like St. John's or something, something like St. John's or something, very classy. She was talking to the, very classy. She was talking to the, very classy. She was talking to the, media, media, media, in behalf of his wife, in behalf of his wife, in behalf of his wife, and she said, "We are just friends., and she said, "We are just friends., and she said, "We are just friends., He was a friend of my husband's, my late, He was a friend of my husband's, my late, He was a friend of my husband's, my late, husband., husband., husband., He was a friend of Charlie's and I'm a, He was a friend of Charlie's and I'm a, He was a friend of Charlie's and I'm a, friend of his. And I'm filling in for, friend of his. And I'm filling in for, friend of his. And I'm filling in for, her because she's with child, her because she's with child, her because she's with child, and she's not speaking right now like, and she's not speaking right now like, and she's not speaking right now like, she was getting ready to have this, she was getting ready to have this, she was getting ready to have this, baby.", baby.", baby.", and she said, "I'm here to speak in, and she said, "I'm here to speak in, and she said, "I'm here to speak in, behalf as the spokesperson like of of, behalf as the spokesperson like of of, behalf as the spokesperson like of of, this, but we are just friends.", this, but we are just friends.", this, but we are just friends.", She said that three or four times., She said that three or four times., She said that three or four times., There's nothing more, nothing less., There's nothing more, nothing less., There's nothing more, nothing less., We're just friends, We're just friends, We're just friends, but I'm here to fulfill a position right, but I'm here to fulfill a position right, but I'm here to fulfill a position right, now to talk to the to to do what I need, now to talk to the to to do what I need, now to talk to the to to do what I need, to do. But she was talking as some kind, to do. But she was talking as some kind, to do. But she was talking as some kind, of position in the White House. She was, of position in the White House. She was, of position in the White House. She was, sitting on the couch. All the media was, sitting on the couch. All the media was, sitting on the couch. All the media was, focused on her. She was taking her hair, focused on her. She was taking her hair, focused on her. She was taking her hair, you know how a woman will, you know, you know how a woman will, you know, you know how a woman will, you know, I've seen my wife do it, pull her hair, I've seen my wife do it, pull her hair, I've seen my wife do it, pull her hair, out of her face, you know, by taking, out of her face, you know, by taking, out of her face, you know, by taking, your hands and you kind of do this. She, your hands and you kind of do this. She, your hands and you kind of do this. She, was doing that like with her hands and, was doing that like with her hands and, was doing that like with her hands and, she was pulling the hair out of her, she was pulling the hair out of her, she was pulling the hair out of her, face., She was dressed up very nice., She was dressed up very nice., As I saw her talking to the media, As I saw her talking to the media, As I saw her talking to the media, as I saw him on the at the desk, as I saw him on the at the desk, as I saw him on the at the desk, I saw Marco Rubio as number two., I saw Marco Rubio as number two., I saw Marco Rubio as number two., Marco Rubio was standing next to him., Marco Rubio was standing next to him., Marco Rubio was standing next to him., Um, who was number three? Who took Marco, Um, who was number three? Who took Marco, Um, who was number three? Who took Marco, Rubio's was um Ronda Santz., Rubio's was um Ronda Santz., Rubio's was um Ronda Santz., Ronda Santz was doing Marco Rubio's job., Ronda Santz was doing Marco Rubio's job., Ronda Santz was doing Marco Rubio's job., All of them were in the Oval Office., All of them were in the Oval Office., All of them were in the Oval Office., All of them., All of them., All of them., I watched all this play out as America, I watched all this play out as America, I watched all this play out as America, was in uh a major uh turmoil., was in uh a major uh turmoil., was in uh a major uh turmoil., It was something of hell on earth. It, It was something of hell on earth. It, It was something of hell on earth. It, felt like, felt like, felt like, I saw that storm all around the White, I saw that storm all around the White, I saw that storm all around the White, House in an intense fashion like you've, House in an intense fashion like you've, House in an intense fashion like you've, never seen before. And I saw a shaking, never seen before. And I saw a shaking, never seen before. And I saw a shaking, coming to this nation with a major war, coming to this nation with a major war, coming to this nation with a major war, like like we've never seen before. But, like like we've never seen before. But, like like we've never seen before. But, Jesus said to me, I hold the church, Jesus said to me, I hold the church, Jesus said to me, I hold the church, accountable for I have given the church, accountable for I have given the church, accountable for I have given the church, authority over the enemy concerning, authority over the enemy concerning, authority over the enemy concerning, prayer concerning these last days., prayer concerning these last days., prayer concerning these last days., There's not enough prayer, There's not enough prayer, There's not enough prayer, and they have elevated him to be the, and they have elevated him to be the, and they have elevated him to be the, savior of America. Brandon, savior of America. Brandon, savior of America. Brandon, the only one that will ever save America, the only one that will ever save America, the only one that will ever save America, is me. The Lord Jesus was he was, is me. The Lord Jesus was he was, is me. The Lord Jesus was he was, referring. He said, "No one else will, referring. He said, "No one else will, referring. He said, "No one else will, ever save America. I will not share the, ever save America. I will not share the, ever save America. I will not share the, glory with no one, even President Trump., As I prayed over this, As I prayed over this, it was so heavy. I I I didn't know what, it was so heavy. I I I didn't know what, it was so heavy. I I I didn't know what, to do with it, to do with it, to do with it, because he said the the last time I, because he said the the last time I, because he said the the last time I, spared him, but open doors have said in, spared him, but open doors have said in, spared him, but open doors have said in, this time and it will not be by by the, this time and it will not be by by the, this time and it will not be by by the, hand of the Lord like I saw not a, hand of the Lord like I saw not a, hand of the Lord like I saw not a, sparing., sparing., sparing., I don't want to quote it wrong because, I don't want to quote it wrong because, I don't want to quote it wrong because, you don't want to add to or take away, you don't want to add to or take away, you don't want to add to or take away, from anything the father I heard in him, from anything the father I heard in him, from anything the father I heard in him, what he said but I saw a shaking coming, what he said but I saw a shaking coming, what he said but I saw a shaking coming, to this nation he said he's in the, to this nation he said he's in the, to this nation he said he's in the, valley of decision and the decisions he, valley of decision and the decisions he, valley of decision and the decisions he, makes, makes, makes, concerning the nations and concerning, concerning the nations and concerning, concerning the nations and concerning, where we are in these end times this, where we are in these end times this, where we are in these end times this, will be the make or break of his, will be the make or break of his, will be the make or break of his, presidency., presidency., presidency., the very decisions that he makes right, the very decisions that he makes right, the very decisions that he makes right, now over the next couple weeks and even, now over the next couple weeks and even, now over the next couple weeks and even, this the speech., this the speech., this the speech., This will be the make and break time of, This will be the make and break time of, This will be the make and break time of, this nation., this nation., this nation., the decisions how he makes and what, the decisions how he makes and what, the decisions how he makes and what, happens, happens, happens, concerning Greenland, concerning Israel, concerning Greenland, concerning Israel, concerning Greenland, concerning Israel, concerning uh Gaza, concerning uh Gaza, concerning uh Gaza, concerning uh Iran, concerning uh Iran, concerning uh Iran, uh so on and so on, Cuba, all these he, uh so on and so on, Cuba, all these he, uh so on and so on, Cuba, all these he, has an major assignment to do. But I saw, has an major assignment to do. But I saw, has an major assignment to do. But I saw, the other one step in and he he uh he, the other one step in and he he uh he, the other one step in and he he uh he, was trying to play the part but he, was trying to play the part but he, was trying to play the part but he, followed along with the globalist agenda, followed along with the globalist agenda, followed along with the globalist agenda, with the banking and all the other, with the banking and all the other, with the banking and all the other, things., It propelled us into even faster end, It propelled us into even faster end, times. What was being sustained over the, times. What was being sustained over the, times. What was being sustained over the, waterfall went over the waterfall., waterfall went over the waterfall., waterfall went over the waterfall., things escalated at a rapid pace beyond, things escalated at a rapid pace beyond, things escalated at a rapid pace beyond, this., this., this., And I'm just bringing this to you, And I'm just bringing this to you, And I'm just bringing this to you, with a heavy heart of what I've seen., with a heavy heart of what I've seen., with a heavy heart of what I've seen., I've I've I've been praying over this, I've I've I've been praying over this, I've I've I've been praying over this, now for well over seven How How long has, now for well over seven How How long has, now for well over seven How How long has, this been?, this been?, this been?, &gt;&gt; Three, four days., &gt;&gt; Three, four days., &gt;&gt; Three, four days., &gt;&gt; Four days., This visitation happened uh Sunday, This visitation happened uh Sunday, last week, last week, last week, and I've not known really what to do, and I've not known really what to do, and I've not known really what to do, with it., I know there has been other prophet, I know there has been other prophet, prophetic people that have had visions, prophetic people that have had visions, prophetic people that have had visions, and saying similar stuff like this that, and saying similar stuff like this that, and saying similar stuff like this that, I have been told about by by by people., I have been told about by by by people., I have been told about by by by people., I do not watch prophetic videos other, I do not watch prophetic videos other, I do not watch prophetic videos other, than mine. I try to keep out the the, than mine. I try to keep out the the, than mine. I try to keep out the the, other voices to make sure that I'm only, other voices to make sure that I'm only, other voices to make sure that I'm only, hearing him and not adding to anything, hearing him and not adding to anything, hearing him and not adding to anything, that anybody else's has in their in, that anybody else's has in their in, that anybody else's has in their in, their rolodex of things that they feel, their rolodex of things that they feel, their rolodex of things that they feel, the Lord has told them. Does that make, the Lord has told them. Does that make, the Lord has told them. Does that make, sense? You want to keep your vessel pure, sense? You want to keep your vessel pure, sense? You want to keep your vessel pure, from all of the outside clutter, from all of the outside clutter, from all of the outside clutter, and it's very hard, and it's very hard, and it's very hard, since there's profit on every channel., since there's profit on every channel., since there's profit on every channel., And everybody say, "Hey, Brandon, did, And everybody say, "Hey, Brandon, did, And everybody say, "Hey, Brandon, did, you hear this? You hear this? No, no, you hear this? You hear this? No, no, you hear this? You hear this? No, no, no, no, no." I told my family, I don't, no, no, no." I told my family, I don't, no, no, no." I told my family, I don't, want to hear it. I can't I have to clog, want to hear it. I can't I have to clog, want to hear it. I can't I have to clog, my ears. I need I have to make sure that, my ears. I need I have to make sure that, my ears. I need I have to make sure that, I'm keeping it straight line with him., I'm keeping it straight line with him., I'm keeping it straight line with him., They say, "Did you read this book? You, They say, "Did you read this book? You, They say, "Did you read this book? You, read that?" No, no, no, no, no. I just, read that?" No, no, no, no, no. I just, read that?" No, no, no, no, no. I just, keep with him., keep with him., keep with him., And this is how I keep myself, I, And this is how I keep myself, I, And this is how I keep myself, I, believe, uh, the static from letting, believe, uh, the static from letting, believe, uh, the static from letting, they come in in the clutter., they come in in the clutter., they come in in the clutter., Is it easy? No. And this was so heavy, Is it easy? No. And this was so heavy, Is it easy? No. And this was so heavy, because I had I I wanted to make sure, because I had I I wanted to make sure, because I had I I wanted to make sure, before I brought this to public, it was, before I brought this to public, it was, before I brought this to public, it was, not flaky. This is a heavy word. And the, not flaky. This is a heavy word. And the, not flaky. This is a heavy word. And the, Lord said the church has to rise up and, Lord said the church has to rise up and, Lord said the church has to rise up and, pray, pray, pray, over these next couple of days in the, over these next couple of days in the, over these next couple of days in the, next in this time time of the head., next in this time time of the head., next in this time time of the head., I said, "Lord, this goes against, I said, "Lord, this goes against, I said, "Lord, this goes against, everything you have showed me concerning, everything you have showed me concerning, everything you have showed me concerning, the 250 years to the the celebration to, the 250 years to the the celebration to, the 250 years to the the celebration to, the economy to all these things." He, the economy to all these things." He, the economy to all these things." He, said, "I told you it was a valley of, said, "I told you it was a valley of, said, "I told you it was a valley of, decision. It will either go this way, decision. It will either go this way, decision. It will either go this way, which I have showed you, or it will go, which I have showed you, or it will go, which I have showed you, or it will go, this way by what the other decisions, this way by what the other decisions, this way by what the other decisions, that he's making." IT'S NOT IT'S ALTERED, that he's making." IT'S NOT IT'S ALTERED, that he's making." IT'S NOT IT'S ALTERED, BY WHAT YOU choose to do. If you if the, BY WHAT YOU choose to do. If you if the, BY WHAT YOU choose to do. If you if the, Lord says, "Hey, sister so and so, Lord says, "Hey, sister so and so, Lord says, "Hey, sister so and so, you're called to be a a song leader at, you're called to be a a song leader at, you're called to be a a song leader at, your church, and you have a gift better, your church, and you have a gift better, your church, and you have a gift better, than Sleen Deion or whoever, and you're, than Sleen Deion or whoever, and you're, than Sleen Deion or whoever, and you're, going to sing like a bird, and you've, going to sing like a bird, and you've, going to sing like a bird, and you've, got all this, but you decide to go and, got all this, but you decide to go and, got all this, but you decide to go and, do something else and go uh sing at the, do something else and go uh sing at the, do something else and go uh sing at the, pub or at the club and get paid x amount, pub or at the club and get paid x amount, pub or at the club and get paid x amount, of dollars instead of putting the gift, of dollars instead of putting the gift, of dollars instead of putting the gift, in the church." THAT'S YOUR CHOICE. THE, in the church." THAT'S YOUR CHOICE. THE, in the church." THAT'S YOUR CHOICE. THE, PROPHETIC WORD WAS ALWAYS there for you, PROPHETIC WORD WAS ALWAYS there for you, PROPHETIC WORD WAS ALWAYS there for you, to do it. But you have to you have to, to do it. But you have to you have to, to do it. But you have to you have to, yield to it AND SAY, "LISTEN, I CHOOSE, yield to it AND SAY, "LISTEN, I CHOOSE, yield to it AND SAY, "LISTEN, I CHOOSE, TO FOLLOW THE LORD." But if YOU SAY, TO FOLLOW THE LORD." But if YOU SAY, TO FOLLOW THE LORD." But if YOU SAY, "HEY, I DON'T WANT TO. I'M GOING TO GO, "HEY, I DON'T WANT TO. I'M GOING TO GO, "HEY, I DON'T WANT TO. I'M GOING TO GO, SING AT THE CLUB." GOD'S THE GENTLEMAN., SING AT THE CLUB." GOD'S THE GENTLEMAN., SING AT THE CLUB." GOD'S THE GENTLEMAN., He's going to let you go right over the, He's going to let you go right over the, He's going to let you go right over the, cliff if you want to. HE DON'T HOLD YOU, cliff if you want to. HE DON'T HOLD YOU, cliff if you want to. HE DON'T HOLD YOU, BACK AT ALL. HE SAID, "LISTEN, I gave, BACK AT ALL. HE SAID, "LISTEN, I gave, BACK AT ALL. HE SAID, "LISTEN, I gave, you free will., you free will., you free will., I gave you free will, and I love you so, I gave you free will, and I love you so, I gave you free will, and I love you so, much that I'm not restraining you from, much that I'm not restraining you from, much that I'm not restraining you from, doing anything. I want you to love me, doing anything. I want you to love me, doing anything. I want you to love me, and choose me because you want to, not, and choose me because you want to, not, and choose me because you want to, not, because I'm forcing you to., because I'm forcing you to., because I'm forcing you to., That's why I try to tell you, we choose, That's why I try to tell you, we choose, That's why I try to tell you, we choose, hell., hell., hell., God never chose any of us to to go to, God never chose any of us to to go to, God never chose any of us to to go to, hell., hell., hell., We choose to go down the path of, We choose to go down the path of, We choose to go down the path of, unrighteousness. We choose to go down, unrighteousness. We choose to go down, unrighteousness. We choose to go down, these things. But he said, "When I've I, these things. But he said, "When I've I, these things. But he said, "When I've I, I've done everything I can do for the, I've done everything I can do for the, I've done everything I can do for the, church by giving them power and, church by giving them power and, church by giving them power and, authority to tread on serpents and, authority to tread on serpents and, authority to tread on serpents and, scorpions, but nothing shall by any, scorpions, but nothing shall by any, scorpions, but nothing shall by any, means HURT THEM. I'M NOT GOING TO DO, means HURT THEM. I'M NOT GOING TO DO, means HURT THEM. I'M NOT GOING TO DO, anything else about the the devil, anything else about the the devil, anything else about the the devil, Brandon. I've done it all." WHEN I WAS, Brandon. I've done it all." WHEN I WAS, Brandon. I've done it all." WHEN I WAS, ON THE CROSS AND I SAID, "IT is, ON THE CROSS AND I SAID, "IT is, ON THE CROSS AND I SAID, "IT is, finished. EVERYTHING I SET OUT TO DO, I, finished. EVERYTHING I SET OUT TO DO, I, finished. EVERYTHING I SET OUT TO DO, I, DID it and I completed with perfection.", DID it and I completed with perfection.", DID it and I completed with perfection.", THERE WAS NOTHING MORE I COULD HAVE DONE, THERE WAS NOTHING MORE I COULD HAVE DONE, THERE WAS NOTHING MORE I COULD HAVE DONE, BETTER. Do you understand? He was, BETTER. Do you understand? He was, BETTER. Do you understand? He was, perfect. He was a lamb slain for the, perfect. He was a lamb slain for the, perfect. He was a lamb slain for the, world. He He was a perfect lamb without, world. He He was a perfect lamb without, world. He He was a perfect lamb without, spot, without without any kind of sin or, spot, without without any kind of sin or, spot, without without any kind of sin or, anything. He was a perfect lamb. But see, anything. He was a perfect lamb. But see, anything. He was a perfect lamb. But see, you. So you have to know that that, you. So you have to know that that, you. So you have to know that that, perfect God that loves us so much gives, perfect God that loves us so much gives, perfect God that loves us so much gives, us free will. And he said, "Will you, us free will. And he said, "Will you, us free will. And he said, "Will you, pray? How many times have I told us?", pray? How many times have I told us?", pray? How many times have I told us?", And he said, "Brandon, I don't need to, And he said, "Brandon, I don't need to, And he said, "Brandon, I don't need to, show you anything else. I need to tell, show you anything else. I need to tell, show you anything else. I need to tell, you if you don't pray over what I have, you if you don't pray over what I have, you if you don't pray over what I have, given you, you're in trouble., the United States is in trouble. I, the United States is in trouble. I, called you to be a watchman on the wall, called you to be a watchman on the wall, called you to be a watchman on the wall, and bring prayer to the masses by the, and bring prayer to the masses by the, and bring prayer to the masses by the, and and and it has been so that you know, and and and it has been so that you know, and and and it has been so that you know, even right now almost 8,000 people, even right now almost 8,000 people, even right now almost 8,000 people, watching all glory to God., watching all glory to God., watching all glory to God., But that's the seriousness of the hour, But that's the seriousness of the hour, But that's the seriousness of the hour, as he said over 8,000 81. He said that's, as he said over 8,000 81. He said that's, as he said over 8,000 81. He said that's, the seriousness of the hour, the seriousness of the hour, the seriousness of the hour, to bring prayer and and and agree, to bring prayer and and and agree, to bring prayer and and and agree, touching if two touching, touching if two touching, touching if two touching, if if just think about that if one of us, if if just think about that if one of us, if if just think about that if one of us, can put a thousand to fly and two of us, can put a thousand to fly and two of us, can put a thousand to fly and two of us, can send the thou 10,000 to fly how much, can send the thou 10,000 to fly how much, can send the thou 10,000 to fly how much, can 8,000 what could we do that's why I, can 8,000 what could we do that's why I, can 8,000 what could we do that's why I, say if we bring all this together and, say if we bring all this together and, say if we bring all this together and, all this together and many hands make, all this together and many hands make, all this together and many hands make, light work concerning this storm people, light work concerning this storm people, light work concerning this storm people, say hey Brandon it's moving up MORE, say hey Brandon it's moving up MORE, say hey Brandon it's moving up MORE, NORTH BY 100 MILES AND IN Tennessee and, NORTH BY 100 MILES AND IN Tennessee and, NORTH BY 100 MILES AND IN Tennessee and, or people ARE SO EXCITED. I'M I'm a, or people ARE SO EXCITED. I'M I'm a, or people ARE SO EXCITED. I'M I'm a, believing believer that expects it., I believe that when we pray that he, I believe that when we pray that he, hears us and and he'll and mountains are, hears us and and he'll and mountains are, hears us and and he'll and mountains are, moved., moved., moved., Mark 11:23 24. Whatsoever things you, Mark 11:23 24. Whatsoever things you, Mark 11:23 24. Whatsoever things you, desire when you pray, believe that you, desire when you pray, believe that you, desire when you pray, believe that you, receive them and you shall have them. If, receive them and you shall have them. If, receive them and you shall have them. If, you say into the mountain, be thou, you say into the mountain, be thou, you say into the mountain, be thou, removed, be thou cast in the sea, shall, removed, be thou cast in the sea, shall, removed, be thou cast in the sea, shall, not doubt in your heart, you shall have, not doubt in your heart, you shall have, not doubt in your heart, you shall have, whatsoever things you say. I don't think, whatsoever things you say. I don't think, whatsoever things you say. I don't think, I I quoted the whole thing. All right., I I quoted the whole thing. All right., I I quoted the whole thing. All right., But paraphrase., It's about it's about being a believing, It's about it's about being a believing, believer in these last days, ladies and, believer in these last days, ladies and, believer in these last days, ladies and, gentlemen. There's great war trying to, gentlemen. There's great war trying to, gentlemen. There's great war trying to, break out across the nations. as I saw, break out across the nations. as I saw, break out across the nations. as I saw, Mcronone and this other and then and if, Mcronone and this other and then and if, Mcronone and this other and then and if, you remember what I saw about Gaza, you remember what I saw about Gaza, you remember what I saw about Gaza, I saw with the brand new buildings, I saw with the brand new buildings, I saw with the brand new buildings, coming and I saw the golf course and I, coming and I saw the golf course and I, coming and I saw the golf course and I, saw a council of of of V a V of council., saw a council of of of V a V of council., saw a council of of of V a V of council., So if there's one, two, three, four, So if there's one, two, three, four, So if there's one, two, three, four, five, six, seven major counselors, it, five, six, seven major counselors, it, five, six, seven major counselors, it, looked like for sure behind MBS, looked like for sure behind MBS, looked like for sure behind MBS, they were in a V. And the Lord said they, they were in a V. And the Lord said they, they were in a V. And the Lord said they, will help fund and restore. But this, will help fund and restore. But this, will help fund and restore. But this, would be a peace agreement concerning, would be a peace agreement concerning, would be a peace agreement concerning, the the the B building the third temple, the the the B building the third temple, the the the B building the third temple, in the days ahead., in the days ahead., in the days ahead., Well, right here, look what happened, Well, right here, look what happened, Well, right here, look what happened, today or yesterday. Can you play that?, &gt;&gt; I was taken to Israel and I saw MBS, &gt;&gt; I was taken to Israel and I saw MBS, leading in a V. He was the leader. He, leading in a V. He was the leader. He, leading in a V. He was the leader. He, was coming in there to do things, but he, was coming in there to do things, but he, was coming in there to do things, but he, had other Arab men behind him. Kind of, had other Arab men behind him. Kind of, had other Arab men behind him. Kind of, like a duck formation. Whenever you see, like a duck formation. Whenever you see, like a duck formation. Whenever you see, ducks flying, they fly in a V. Well, he, ducks flying, they fly in a V. Well, he, ducks flying, they fly in a V. Well, he, was in a V. He was the head of it. And I, was in a V. He was the head of it. And I, was in a V. He was the head of it. And I, saw him talking and he went into Israel, saw him talking and he went into Israel, saw him talking and he went into Israel, and I saw him negotiating the Gaza with, and I saw him negotiating the Gaza with, and I saw him negotiating the Gaza with, Trump and other countries. And they, Trump and other countries. And they, Trump and other countries. And they, rebuilt Gaza. So, we did a master plan, rebuilt Gaza. So, we did a master plan, rebuilt Gaza. So, we did a master plan, and we've developed ways to redevelop, and we've developed ways to redevelop, and we've developed ways to redevelop, Gaza. Gaza, as President Trump's been, Gaza. Gaza, as President Trump's been, Gaza. Gaza, as President Trump's been, saying, has amazing potential. And this, saying, has amazing potential. And this, saying, has amazing potential. And this, is for the people of Gaza. We've, is for the people of Gaza. We've, is for the people of Gaza. We've, developed it into zones. In the, developed it into zones. In the, developed it into zones. In the, beginning, we were toying with the idea, beginning, we were toying with the idea, beginning, we were toying with the idea, of saying, let's build a a free zone and, of saying, let's build a a free zone and, of saying, let's build a a free zone and, then we have a Hamas zone. And then we, then we have a Hamas zone. And then we, then we have a Hamas zone. And then we, said, you know what? Let's just plan for, said, you know what? Let's just plan for, said, you know what? Let's just plan for, catastrophic success. We Hamas signed a, catastrophic success. We Hamas signed a, catastrophic success. We Hamas signed a, deal demilitarized. That is what we are, deal demilitarized. That is what we are, deal demilitarized. That is what we are, going to enforce. People ask us what our, going to enforce. People ask us what our, going to enforce. People ask us what our, plan B is. We do not have a plan B. Uh, plan B is. We do not have a plan B. Uh, plan B is. We do not have a plan B. Uh, we have a plan. We signed an agreement., we have a plan. We signed an agreement., we have a plan. We signed an agreement., We are all committed to making that, We are all committed to making that, We are all committed to making that, agreement work. There's a master plan., agreement work. There's a master plan., agreement work. There's a master plan., We'll be doing it in phasing. In the, We'll be doing it in phasing. In the, We'll be doing it in phasing. In the, Middle East, they build cities like this, Middle East, they build cities like this, Middle East, they build cities like this, in uh you know 2 3 million people. They, in uh you know 2 3 million people. They, in uh you know 2 3 million people. They, build this in 3 years. And so stuff like, build this in 3 years. And so stuff like, build this in 3 years. And so stuff like, this is very doable if we make it, this is very doable if we make it, this is very doable if we make it, happen. I saw a golf course with Trump's, happen. I saw a golf course with Trump's, happen. I saw a golf course with Trump's, name on it that was a Trump golf course, name on it that was a Trump golf course, name on it that was a Trump golf course, with a flag in the ninth hole. Now, I, with a flag in the ninth hole. Now, I, with a flag in the ninth hole. Now, I, know this is symbolic and it said Trump, know this is symbolic and it said Trump, know this is symbolic and it said Trump, golf course Gaza and it was blue and, golf course Gaza and it was blue and, golf course Gaza and it was blue and, white that looked like Israel and it was, white that looked like Israel and it was, white that looked like Israel and it was, in beautiful cursive writing and it had, in beautiful cursive writing and it had, in beautiful cursive writing and it had, blue outlining the flag just like it, blue outlining the flag just like it, blue outlining the flag just like it, would an Israeli flag and it was in the, would an Israeli flag and it was in the, would an Israeli flag and it was in the, ninth hole. I saw the green grass that, ninth hole. I saw the green grass that, ninth hole. I saw the green grass that, was all on this uh golf course that, was all on this uh golf course that, was all on this uh golf course that, looked absolutely beautiful and it was, looked absolutely beautiful and it was, looked absolutely beautiful and it was, next to the Mediterranean. I could see, next to the Mediterranean. I could see, next to the Mediterranean. I could see, beautiful houses that were mansions, beautiful houses that were mansions, beautiful houses that were mansions, behind it. I'm talking big money homes, behind it. I'm talking big money homes, behind it. I'm talking big money homes, that looked like something out of Miami., that looked like something out of Miami., that looked like something out of Miami., They were a white stucco house with, They were a white stucco house with, They were a white stucco house with, rooftops that that could look out over, rooftops that that could look out over, rooftops that that could look out over, the water., the water., the water., &gt;&gt; And then New Gaza, it could be a hope., &gt;&gt; And then New Gaza, it could be a hope., &gt;&gt; And then New Gaza, it could be a hope., could be a destination, have a lot of, could be a destination, have a lot of, could be a destination, have a lot of, industry and really be a place that that, industry and really be a place that that, industry and really be a place that that, the people there can thrive, have great, the people there can thrive, have great, the people there can thrive, have great, employment. Uh once this starts going, employment. Uh once this starts going, employment. Uh once this starts going, we think there should be 100% full, we think there should be 100% full, we think there should be 100% full, employment and opportunity for everybody, employment and opportunity for everybody, employment and opportunity for everybody, there. And uh we have a lot of data on, there. And uh we have a lot of data on, there. And uh we have a lot of data on, what can be, but we think that this, what can be, but we think that this, what can be, but we think that this, really gives the Gazin people an, really gives the Gazin people an, really gives the Gazin people an, opportunity to to live their, opportunity to to live their, opportunity to to live their, aspirations. And I saw all of a sudden, aspirations. And I saw all of a sudden, aspirations. And I saw all of a sudden, oil derks, but they were coming up out, oil derks, but they were coming up out, oil derks, but they were coming up out, of Gaza. And there was a massive amount, of Gaza. And there was a massive amount, of Gaza. And there was a massive amount, of money in oil and gas underneath the, of money in oil and gas underneath the, of money in oil and gas underneath the, the the soil of Gaza, the the soil of Gaza, the the soil of Gaza, underneath the Mediterranean, outside of, underneath the Mediterranean, outside of, underneath the Mediterranean, outside of, the coastline. So I saw the third temple, the coastline. So I saw the third temple, the coastline. So I saw the third temple, being built. I was taken to Israel, &gt;&gt; Okay. So, in my life, &gt;&gt; Okay. So, in my life, &gt;&gt; yeah., &gt;&gt; yeah., &gt;&gt; yeah., &gt;&gt; So, we saw that and it's happening just, &gt;&gt; So, we saw that and it's happening just, &gt;&gt; So, we saw that and it's happening just, like the Lord told us he would. And, like the Lord told us he would. And, like the Lord told us he would. And, they're going to they're going it they, they're going to they're going it they, they're going to they're going it they, want the countries to buy in at a, want the countries to buy in at a, want the countries to buy in at a, billion dollars a piece to be councils, billion dollars a piece to be councils, billion dollars a piece to be councils, of this Gaza Strip and how they're going, of this Gaza Strip and how they're going, of this Gaza Strip and how they're going, to bring in peace and and they're going, to bring in peace and and they're going, to bring in peace and and they're going, to bring in a stabil stable uh Gaza and, to bring in a stabil stable uh Gaza and, to bring in a stabil stable uh Gaza and, and eliminate Hamas and do all the, and eliminate Hamas and do all the, and eliminate Hamas and do all the, things they want to do. If you remember, things they want to do. If you remember, things they want to do. If you remember, correctly, when I went to tribulation, correctly, when I went to tribulation, correctly, when I went to tribulation, with the Lord back on in 2014, I've told, with the Lord back on in 2014, I've told, with the Lord back on in 2014, I've told, everyone about this so many times. I, everyone about this so many times. I, everyone about this so many times. I, said, "They create a flag that the, said, "They create a flag that the, said, "They create a flag that the, Antichrist latches on to and starts, Antichrist latches on to and starts, Antichrist latches on to and starts, using it as his own flag." Well, this is, using it as his own flag." Well, this is, using it as his own flag." Well, this is, the new uh uh what's it called? Lord of, the new uh uh what's it called? Lord of, the new uh uh what's it called? Lord of, Peace., Peace., Peace., &gt;&gt; Uh, &gt;&gt; Uh, &gt;&gt; Uh, &gt;&gt; Land of Peace., &gt;&gt; Land of Peace., &gt;&gt; Land of Peace., &gt;&gt; Board of, &gt;&gt; Board of, &gt;&gt; Board of, &gt;&gt; Board of Peace. I couldn't read it all., &gt;&gt; Board of Peace. I couldn't read it all., &gt;&gt; Board of Peace. I couldn't read it all., I'm sorry., I'm sorry., I'm sorry., &gt;&gt; Yeah. Board of Peace., &gt;&gt; Yeah. Board of Peace., &gt;&gt; Yeah. Board of Peace., &gt;&gt; Board of Peace. This is their uh symbol., &gt;&gt; Board of Peace. This is their uh symbol., &gt;&gt; Board of Peace. This is their uh symbol., Well, I thought that was kind of, Well, I thought that was kind of, Well, I thought that was kind of, interesting because it's similar to what, interesting because it's similar to what, interesting because it's similar to what, I saw on the Antichrist flag. Is this, I saw on the Antichrist flag. Is this, I saw on the Antichrist flag. Is this, the beginning, the beginning, the beginning, of that symbol?, of that symbol?, of that symbol?, Because all they have to do is just put, Because all they have to do is just put, Because all they have to do is just put, the five pillars of Islam above it with, the five pillars of Islam above it with, the five pillars of Islam above it with, the green, the white, and the black and, the green, the white, and the black and, the green, the white, and the black and, put the swords. And it's just like what, put the swords. And it's just like what, put the swords. And it's just like what, I saw basically with the gold. And I, I saw basically with the gold. And I, I saw basically with the gold. And I, told Braden I said if they just alter it, told Braden I said if they just alter it, told Braden I said if they just alter it, just a little bit., I think things are interesting the, I think things are interesting the, beginning stages of what the That's why, beginning stages of what the That's why, beginning stages of what the That's why, I try to tell y'all. People say, "Oh, we, I try to tell y'all. People say, "Oh, we, I try to tell y'all. People say, "Oh, we, have so long before Jesus comes back." I, have so long before Jesus comes back." I, have so long before Jesus comes back." I, said, "Your head is in the sand or, said, "Your head is in the sand or, said, "Your head is in the sand or, someplace else. You need to wake up., someplace else. You need to wake up., someplace else. You need to wake up., Jesus Christ is standing at the door and, Jesus Christ is standing at the door and, Jesus Christ is standing at the door and, he's waiting. And I've told you I don't, he's waiting. And I've told you I don't, he's waiting. And I've told you I don't, know how many times on this channel the, know how many times on this channel the, know how many times on this channel the, Lord said I said LORD HE SAID I'M NOT, Lord said I said LORD HE SAID I'M NOT, Lord said I said LORD HE SAID I'M NOT, WAIT YOU'RE NOT WAITING ON ME BRANDON., WAIT YOU'RE NOT WAITING ON ME BRANDON., WAIT YOU'RE NOT WAITING ON ME BRANDON., I'm waiting on you. Bring in a harvest., I'm waiting on you. Bring in a harvest., I'm waiting on you. Bring in a harvest., Bring in the harvest of souls. Tell the, Bring in the harvest of souls. Tell the, Bring in the harvest of souls. Tell the, people I'm coming., people I'm coming., people I'm coming., I wish that none should perish. Now, I wish that none should perish. Now, I wish that none should perish. Now, people get all upset about theology and, people get all upset about theology and, people get all upset about theology and, you talk about stuff. Listen, it's about, you talk about stuff. Listen, it's about, you talk about stuff. Listen, it's about, it's about saving that which is lost., it's about saving that which is lost., it's about saving that which is lost., Telling the people the good news that, Telling the people the good news that, Telling the people the good news that, Jesus Christ loves them and he wants you, Jesus Christ loves them and he wants you, Jesus Christ loves them and he wants you, us to repent and turn from our wicked, us to repent and turn from our wicked, us to repent and turn from our wicked, ways., ways., ways., It's time that we repent and come back, It's time that we repent and come back, It's time that we repent and come back, to Jesus. Or and if you've never known, to Jesus. Or and if you've never known, to Jesus. Or and if you've never known, Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ, it's time for you to come home today., it's time for you to come home today., it's time for you to come home today., All these signs are happening all around, All these signs are happening all around, All these signs are happening all around, us, us, us, and Trump is in the valley of decision, and Trump is in the valley of decision, and Trump is in the valley of decision, over this next couple weeks., over this next couple weeks., over this next couple weeks., He's he we're we're basically the 26 is, He's he we're we're basically the 26 is, He's he we're we're basically the 26 is, next week going into the third. He said, next week going into the third. He said, next week going into the third. He said, the third comes up smelling like a turd., the third comes up smelling like a turd., the third comes up smelling like a turd., And I thought that was a really it was, And I thought that was a really it was, And I thought that was a really it was, it sounds disgusting but it's it's it's, it sounds disgusting but it's it's it's, it sounds disgusting but it's it's it's, it's how it catches my attention so I, it's how it catches my attention so I, it's how it catches my attention so I, remember things. going into the Olympics, remember things. going into the Olympics, remember things. going into the Olympics, and I saw a a an abomination like the, and I saw a a an abomination like the, and I saw a a an abomination like the, way that things are about to be played, way that things are about to be played, way that things are about to be played, out is very disgraceful a slap in the, out is very disgraceful a slap in the, out is very disgraceful a slap in the, face to the father. That's a better way, face to the father. That's a better way, face to the father. That's a better way, to say it concerning the opening, to say it concerning the opening, to say it concerning the opening, ceremony., ceremony., ceremony., Now I've seen seen the Lord said pray, Now I've seen seen the Lord said pray, Now I've seen seen the Lord said pray, over the opening ceremony. The opening, over the opening ceremony. The opening, over the opening ceremony. The opening, ceremony., ceremony., ceremony., So, will we see a major Islamic uh, So, will we see a major Islamic uh, So, will we see a major Islamic uh, celebration at the opening ceremony with, celebration at the opening ceremony with, celebration at the opening ceremony with, all like a a religion? What what are we, all like a a religion? What what are we, all like a a religion? What what are we, about to see? What what's about to, about to see? What what's about to, about to see? What what's about to, happen? I said the shaking of the, happen? I said the shaking of the, happen? I said the shaking of the, Catholic Church, the shaking of the, Catholic Church, the shaking of the, Catholic Church, the shaking of the, church in America, the shaking of uh of, church in America, the shaking of uh of, church in America, the shaking of uh of, of of of major uh signs in the heavens, of of of major uh signs in the heavens, of of of major uh signs in the heavens, in the earth, and in the in politics and, in the earth, and in the in politics and, in the earth, and in the in politics and, in finances and uh all these major five, in finances and uh all these major five, in finances and uh all these major five, shakings he told us was coming., shakings he told us was coming., shakings he told us was coming., So, as I bring this to you tonight, I, So, as I bring this to you tonight, I, So, as I bring this to you tonight, I, want to uh it with a heavy heart praying, want to uh it with a heavy heart praying, want to uh it with a heavy heart praying, over this. That's what we're here for., over this. That's what we're here for., over this. That's what we're here for., So, I I I get these assignments. I get, So, I I I get these assignments. I get, So, I I I get these assignments. I get, these words and they're not easy to come, these words and they're not easy to come, these words and they're not easy to come, on on a platform with thousands of, on on a platform with thousands of, on on a platform with thousands of, people and tell you what I see, people and tell you what I see, people and tell you what I see, but I do it with great boldness. And I, but I do it with great boldness. And I, but I do it with great boldness. And I, do it because I fear the Lord, not man., do it because I fear the Lord, not man., do it because I fear the Lord, not man., And when he tells me something so strong, And when he tells me something so strong, And when he tells me something so strong, and the presence of the Lord fills my, and the presence of the Lord fills my, and the presence of the Lord fills my, house, I said, I'll not re I'll not hold, house, I said, I'll not re I'll not hold, house, I said, I'll not re I'll not hold, anything back from you, Father. Whatever, anything back from you, Father. Whatever, anything back from you, Father. Whatever, it takes, I'll do it. And I'll do it, it takes, I'll do it. And I'll do it, it takes, I'll do it. And I'll do it, with boldness., with boldness., with boldness., I thank you for you praying for my, I thank you for you praying for my, I thank you for you praying for my, family. But I saw it was Russia. I saw, family. But I saw it was Russia. I saw, family. But I saw it was Russia. I saw, it had to do with France. And that was, it had to do with France. And that was, it had to do with France. And that was, who was planning this against our, who was planning this against our, who was planning this against our, president., president., president., It was very serious., It was very serious., It was very serious., And this was a trained shooter. It, And this was a trained shooter. It, And this was a trained shooter. It, wasn't some kid this time. It was, wasn't some kid this time. It was, wasn't some kid this time. It was, somebody. It was military like the Navy, somebody. It was military like the Navy, somebody. It was military like the Navy, Seals of America. That's how good this, Seals of America. That's how good this, Seals of America. That's how good this, guy was. It was so far off they couldn't, guy was. It was so far off they couldn't, guy was. It was so far off they couldn't, even see him., I I told Brad I try to look up how far, I I told Brad I try to look up how far, one of those projectiles would go. You, one of those projectiles would go. You, one of those projectiles would go. You, can get you can go up to over two miles, can get you can go up to over two miles, can get you can go up to over two miles, for some people. I thought that seemed, for some people. I thought that seemed, for some people. I thought that seemed, impossible., impossible., impossible., How is that even possible?, How is that even possible?, How is that even possible?, Maybe I'm mistaken, but but I that's the, Maybe I'm mistaken, but but I that's the, Maybe I'm mistaken, but but I that's the, way I was reading about this and trying, way I was reading about this and trying, way I was reading about this and trying, to figure out how far this individual, to figure out how far this individual, to figure out how far this individual, could be., So, So, is it a call to fear? Oh no, THE SKY IS, is it a call to fear? Oh no, THE SKY IS, is it a call to fear? Oh no, THE SKY IS, FALLING. NO, it's a call to prayer. And, FALLING. NO, it's a call to prayer. And, FALLING. NO, it's a call to prayer. And, I'm not giving up on my president. I'm, I'm not giving up on my president. I'm, I'm not giving up on my president. I'm, not giving up on his heart. I'm I'm not, not giving up on his heart. I'm I'm not, not giving up on his heart. I'm I'm not, giving up on him changing. The Bible, giving up on him changing. The Bible, giving up on him changing. The Bible, says, "If my people who are called by my, says, "If my people who are called by my, says, "If my people who are called by my, name will humble themselves and pray.", name will humble themselves and pray.", name will humble themselves and pray.", He didn't say, "If the world will humble, He didn't say, "If the world will humble, He didn't say, "If the world will humble, themselves and pray and turn from their, themselves and pray and turn from their, themselves and pray and turn from their, wicked ways, then we would hear from, wicked ways, then we would hear from, wicked ways, then we would hear from, heaven and he would heal our land." HE, heaven and he would heal our land." HE, heaven and he would heal our land." HE, SAID, "IF MY PEOPLE WHO ARE CALLED BY MY, SAID, "IF MY PEOPLE WHO ARE CALLED BY MY, SAID, "IF MY PEOPLE WHO ARE CALLED BY MY, NAME, MY PEOPLE, PEOPLE THAT I CALL, NAME, MY PEOPLE, PEOPLE THAT I CALL, NAME, MY PEOPLE, PEOPLE THAT I CALL, MINE, I just just need to tweak some, MINE, I just just need to tweak some, MINE, I just just need to tweak some, things up in here.", things up in here.", things up in here.", So what I've seen is is he said I'm, So what I've seen is is he said I'm, So what I've seen is is he said I'm, holding the church account. SO AM I, holding the church account. SO AM I, holding the church account. SO AM I, GOING TO STAND BEFORE HIM AND SAY MAN, GOING TO STAND BEFORE HIM AND SAY MAN, GOING TO STAND BEFORE HIM AND SAY MAN, I'M sure I I have an excuse Lord I was, I'M sure I I have an excuse Lord I was, I'M sure I I have an excuse Lord I was, too busy. I was trying to cook dinner., too busy. I was trying to cook dinner., too busy. I was trying to cook dinner., You know I went out and I had to go get, You know I went out and I had to go get, You know I went out and I had to go get, my coffee., my coffee., my coffee., Didn't want to do live stream tonight., Didn't want to do live stream tonight., Didn't want to do live stream tonight., What's your excuse not to pray? I I say, What's your excuse not to pray? I I say, What's your excuse not to pray? I I say, what what's the excuse to church? Where, what what's the excuse to church? Where, what what's the excuse to church? Where, are we at? What are we doing?, are we at? What are we doing?, are we at? What are we doing?, I'm assembling a group of people of a, I'm assembling a group of people of a, I'm assembling a group of people of a, million men and women prayer army to, million men and women prayer army to, million men and women prayer army to, pray for this nation, to pray for our, pray for this nation, to pray for our, pray for this nation, to pray for our, president, to pray for the for the the, president, to pray for the for the the, president, to pray for the for the the, decisions that he makes. That he cannot, decisions that he makes. That he cannot, decisions that he makes. That he cannot, take counsel from the ungodly. That he, take counsel from the ungodly. That he, take counsel from the ungodly. That he, would raise up godly counsel all around, would raise up godly counsel all around, would raise up godly counsel all around, him. And that he he would we would, him. And that he he would we would, him. And that he he would we would, protect his children, protect his children, protect his children, and protect his grandchildren and, and protect his grandchildren and, and protect his grandchildren and, protect him by the power of prayer., protect him by the power of prayer., protect him by the power of prayer., Does anybody else out there believe in, Does anybody else out there believe in, Does anybody else out there believe in, the power of prayer? Are you a believing, the power of prayer? Are you a believing, the power of prayer? Are you a believing, believer or are you not?, believer or are you not?, believer or are you not?, I'm asking you to help me., I know it might be fun for some of you, I know it might be fun for some of you, to come and look at the chat and do all, to come and look at the chat and do all, to come and look at the chat and do all, this and get distracted with all of it, this and get distracted with all of it, this and get distracted with all of it, but I'm trying to tell you the urgency, but I'm trying to tell you the urgency, but I'm trying to tell you the urgency, of an hour of a man's life is in the, of an hour of a man's life is in the, of an hour of a man's life is in the, balance., And I'm asking you to please take this, And I'm asking you to please take this, serious, serious, serious, and to pray for our president., The enemy would love nothing more than, The enemy would love nothing more than, to destroy our nation, to destroy our nation, to destroy our nation, through pride, through arrogance, through pride, through arrogance, through pride, through arrogance, through doing things just because of, through doing things just because of, through doing things just because of, just, you know, it sounds good taking, just, you know, it sounds good taking, just, you know, it sounds good taking, Greenland doing these things. I don't, Greenland doing these things. I don't, Greenland doing these things. I don't, understand all that. I told you I had a, understand all that. I told you I had a, understand all that. I told you I had a, great caution concerning Greenland., great caution concerning Greenland., great caution concerning Greenland., I had a go in my spirit to liberate the, I had a go in my spirit to liberate the, I had a go in my spirit to liberate the, people of Cuba over Mexico, to get rid, people of Cuba over Mexico, to get rid, people of Cuba over Mexico, to get rid, of dictators, and to to bring forth, of dictators, and to to bring forth, of dictators, and to to bring forth, better leadership., better leadership., better leadership., Are we the police of the world? No. But, Are we the police of the world? No. But, Are we the police of the world? No. But, the Lord said we're that close to the, the Lord said we're that close to the, the Lord said we're that close to the, sun coming. That we're in a Hail Mary, sun coming. That we're in a Hail Mary, sun coming. That we're in a Hail Mary, pray play right now. It's all hands on, pray play right now. It's all hands on, pray play right now. It's all hands on, deck. He wants the greatest revival this, deck. He wants the greatest revival this, deck. He wants the greatest revival this, world has ever seen before. AND HE'S, world has ever seen before. AND HE'S, world has ever seen before. AND HE'S, CALLING ALL OF US TO COME UP higher in, CALLING ALL OF US TO COME UP higher in, CALLING ALL OF US TO COME UP higher in, our prayer life with him. I told you 1, our prayer life with him. I told you 1, our prayer life with him. I told you 1, Corinthians 5:5 was the was the word for, Corinthians 5:5 was the was the word for, Corinthians 5:5 was the was the word for, the for for the uh Lord the word of the, the for for the uh Lord the word of the, the for for the uh Lord the word of the, Lord for 2026. 1 Corinthians 5:5., Lord for 2026. 1 Corinthians 5:5., Lord for 2026. 1 Corinthians 5:5., A lot of people didn't want to hear, A lot of people didn't want to hear, A lot of people didn't want to hear, that., that., that., But I said, you're going to see great, But I said, you're going to see great, But I said, you're going to see great, leaders in California fall. There'll be, leaders in California fall. There'll be, leaders in California fall. There'll be, great church shaking in California. in, great church shaking in California. in, great church shaking in California. in, the days ahead that will fall. A major, the days ahead that will fall. A major, the days ahead that will fall. A major, leader of a major church in California, leader of a major church in California, leader of a major church in California, will be shaken and it will be there will, will be shaken and it will be there will, will be shaken and it will be there will, be things exposed in the days ahead in a, be things exposed in the days ahead in a, be things exposed in the days ahead in a, major church in California., And I said it will go all over the, And I said it will go all over the, media, media, media, but I've not touched it., The Lord said I'm shaking churches, The Lord said I'm shaking churches, Brandon. I'm exposing corruption., He said, "A major TV network won't be, He said, "A major TV network won't be, there very much longer. They'll go down, there very much longer. They'll go down, there very much longer. They'll go down, too.", too.", too.", Remember, Remember, Remember, how many times have I warned this? I, how many times have I warned this? I, how many times have I warned this? I, said, "There's corruption in TV, said, "There's corruption in TV, said, "There's corruption in TV, networks. There's corruption in, networks. There's corruption in, networks. There's corruption in, churches. There's corruption in in in, churches. There's corruption in in in, churches. There's corruption in in in, major ministries." And he said, major ministries." And he said, major ministries." And he said, "Brandon, I'm cleaning house.", "Brandon, I'm cleaning house.", "Brandon, I'm cleaning house.", And there'll be great shaking in the, And there'll be great shaking in the, And there'll be great shaking in the, church in the days ahead., church in the days ahead., church in the days ahead., And there'll be ministers that used to, And there'll be ministers that used to, And there'll be ministers that used to, have a platform that were huge and had a, have a platform that were huge and had a, have a platform that were huge and had a, huge audience that will no longer be, huge audience that will no longer be, huge audience that will no longer be, there within just that fast. And you'll, there within just that fast. And you'll, there within just that fast. And you'll, see new faces rise up out of seemingly, see new faces rise up out of seemingly, see new faces rise up out of seemingly, nowhere that I will put my hand on and I, nowhere that I will put my hand on and I, nowhere that I will put my hand on and I, will use them and I will bring my glory, will use them and I will bring my glory, will use them and I will bring my glory, through them., through them., through them., Not for us to hold it and take it, but, Not for us to hold it and take it, but, Not for us to hold it and take it, but, us to deflect., us to deflect., us to deflect., We're just a vessel. the janitors, We're just a vessel. the janitors, We're just a vessel. the janitors, the cooks, the children's church, the cooks, the children's church, the cooks, the children's church, workers, workers, workers, the parking lot attendants, the parking lot attendants, the parking lot attendants, people that have been broken and been on, people that have been broken and been on, people that have been broken and been on, the potter's will for such a time as, the potter's will for such a time as, the potter's will for such a time as, this. He will use whoever he can that, this. He will use whoever he can that, this. He will use whoever he can that, will just say, "Yes, here am I, Lord.", will just say, "Yes, here am I, Lord.", will just say, "Yes, here am I, Lord.", That doesn't have an ego and a resume., That doesn't have an ego and a resume., That doesn't have an ego and a resume., He's done with egos and resumes. He's, He's done with egos and resumes. He's, He's done with egos and resumes. He's, looking for the person who just was the, looking for the person who just was the, looking for the person who just was the, guy that said, "Listen, I clean vomit, guy that said, "Listen, I clean vomit, guy that said, "Listen, I clean vomit, and poo for for for for years, and I, and poo for for for for years, and I, and poo for for for for years, and I, just wanted to yield to the father. You, just wanted to yield to the father. You, just wanted to yield to the father. You, know what? I was the guy outside pulling, know what? I was the guy outside pulling, know what? I was the guy outside pulling, the weeds and the flower beds or the gum, the weeds and the flower beds or the gum, the weeds and the flower beds or the gum, or the or the dirty diaper that was in, or the or the dirty diaper that was in, or the or the dirty diaper that was in, the parking lot and cleaned it up and I, the parking lot and cleaned it up and I, the parking lot and cleaned it up and I, just did it all to the glory of God.", just did it all to the glory of God.", just did it all to the glory of God.", And that's what he's looking for right, And that's what he's looking for right, And that's what he's looking for right, now. Not somebody who says, "Well, you, now. Not somebody who says, "Well, you, now. Not somebody who says, "Well, you, know, I have a I have a a doctor's, know, I have a I have a a doctor's, know, I have a I have a a doctor's, degree in theology and I can I can, degree in theology and I can I can, degree in theology and I can I can, outschool everybody in here and I and, outschool everybody in here and I and, outschool everybody in here and I and, I'm telling you what, I've got so much, I'm telling you what, I've got so much, I'm telling you what, I've got so much, the world knowledge and world of the, the world knowledge and world of the, the world knowledge and world of the, Bible. I got in there, but there's no, Bible. I got in there, but there's no, Bible. I got in there, but there's no, character.", character.", character.", He's looking for people who car have, He's looking for people who car have, He's looking for people who car have, character that will not bend to money, character that will not bend to money, character that will not bend to money, that will not allow money to destroy, that will not allow money to destroy, that will not allow money to destroy, them. And when they get it and they get, them. And when they get it and they get, them. And when they get it and they get, a big offering and they've got, well, a big offering and they've got, well, a big offering and they've got, well, you know what? Did you see my all my my, you know what? Did you see my all my my, you know what? Did you see my all my my, this and my bling and I got all this, this and my bling and I got all this, this and my bling and I got all this, everything. Does the bling control you, everything. Does the bling control you, everything. Does the bling control you, or do you control the bling?, or do you control the bling?, or do you control the bling?, If he said give it away, would you GIVE, If he said give it away, would you GIVE, If he said give it away, would you GIVE, IT AWAY? GOD don't believe God has a, IT AWAY? GOD don't believe God has a, IT AWAY? GOD don't believe God has a, problem with us having nice stuff., problem with us having nice stuff., problem with us having nice stuff., If we being evil give good give good, If we being evil give good give good, If we being evil give good give good, gifts to our children, how much more, gifts to our children, how much more, gifts to our children, how much more, does our heavenly father give good gifts, does our heavenly father give good gifts, does our heavenly father give good gifts, to us?, to us?, to us?, It's not just about materialism. He, It's not just about materialism. He, It's not just about materialism. He, gives all things for us richly to enjoy., gives all things for us richly to enjoy., gives all things for us richly to enjoy., The Bible says, but there is a there is, The Bible says, but there is a there is, The Bible says, but there is a there is, a a stench that becomes before him of, a a stench that becomes before him of, a a stench that becomes before him of, the materialism in the church and the, the materialism in the church and the, the materialism in the church and the, way they act about it. You got a lust, way they act about it. You got a lust, way they act about it. You got a lust, for stuff., How much of a lust for stuff do you, How much of a lust for stuff do you, have? Check your thermostat., have? Check your thermostat., have? Check your thermostat., Check where you are with the father., Check where you are with the father., Check where you are with the father., It says, "Seek ye first the KINGDOM AND, It says, "Seek ye first the KINGDOM AND, It says, "Seek ye first the KINGDOM AND, ALL THESE things will be added unto us.", ALL THESE things will be added unto us.", ALL THESE things will be added unto us.", HE DIDN'T SAY SEEK THE STUFF. Seek him, HE DIDN'T SAY SEEK THE STUFF. Seek him, HE DIDN'T SAY SEEK THE STUFF. Seek him, and he'll give you the things if you, and he'll give you the things if you, and he'll give you the things if you, need it., Right? But it it's been a it's just the, Right? But it it's been a it's just the, the the whole process of the world is we, the the whole process of the world is we, the the whole process of the world is we, automatically just go after well, you, automatically just go after well, you, automatically just go after well, you, know, because we get the the the, know, because we get the the the, know, because we get the the the, prosperity gospel. Well, we can sew this, prosperity gospel. Well, we can sew this, prosperity gospel. Well, we can sew this, and I'm going to get I'm GOING TO GET, and I'm going to get I'm GOING TO GET, and I'm going to get I'm GOING TO GET, FIVE ROLEXES. I'm going to get a, FIVE ROLEXES. I'm going to get a, FIVE ROLEXES. I'm going to get a, Ferrari. I'm going to get me my, Ferrari. I'm going to get me my, Ferrari. I'm going to get me my, Rolls-Royce. And I'm going to get me my, Rolls-Royce. And I'm going to get me my, Rolls-Royce. And I'm going to get me my, brand new Gulf Stream., brand new Gulf Stream., brand new Gulf Stream., And I don't think there's wrong with, And I don't think there's wrong with, And I don't think there's wrong with, having nice things. I'm going to say, having nice things. I'm going to say, having nice things. I'm going to say, that again. But when the things have, that again. But when the things have, that again. But when the things have, you, you, you, we should fall in love with Jesus, not, we should fall in love with Jesus, not, we should fall in love with Jesus, not, the things., Is he Is he Lord of your life or are the, Is he Is he Lord of your life or are the, things the Lord of your life?, things the Lord of your life?, things the Lord of your life?, You can have a Gucci shirt, but can he, You can have a Gucci shirt, but can he, You can have a Gucci shirt, but can he, ask you to give it away?, ask you to give it away?, ask you to give it away?, Do you get what I'm trying to tell you, Do you get what I'm trying to tell you, Do you get what I'm trying to tell you, all?, all?, all?, How much more is he more valuable? You, How much more is he more valuable? You, How much more is he more valuable? You, can gain the whole world and lose your, can gain the whole world and lose your, can gain the whole world and lose your, soul., I want to be sold out to Jesus in these, I want to be sold out to Jesus in these, last days., last days., last days., I want to be allin., I want to be allin., I want to be allin., Am I perfect? No. Do I get it right, Am I perfect? No. Do I get it right, Am I perfect? No. Do I get it right, every time? I don't believe so. I'm just, every time? I don't believe so. I'm just, every time? I don't believe so. I'm just, as human as every one of you all are., as human as every one of you all are., as human as every one of you all are., But I choose to follow Jesus, But I choose to follow Jesus, But I choose to follow Jesus, and I try my best just like everybody, and I try my best just like everybody, and I try my best just like everybody, else. Hey, listen. We're a work in, else. Hey, listen. We're a work in, else. Hey, listen. We're a work in, progress. But I'm trying to tell you, progress. But I'm trying to tell you, progress. But I'm trying to tell you, what he's told me., what he's told me., what he's told me., And I and I and I do it with great fear, And I and I and I do it with great fear, And I and I and I do it with great fear, and humility., and humility., and humility., I didn't want to give these words, I didn't want to give these words, I didn't want to give these words, tonight. That's why I didn't do videos, tonight. That's why I didn't do videos, tonight. That's why I didn't do videos, all week. I said I I had this in Sunday., all week. I said I I had this in Sunday., all week. I said I I had this in Sunday., And I told my son, I said, "I've got to, And I told my son, I said, "I've got to, And I told my son, I said, "I've got to, get this off me., get this off me., get this off me., I've interceded and prayed. I done, I've interceded and prayed. I done, I've interceded and prayed. I done, talked to nobody on the phone. I just, talked to nobody on the phone. I just, talked to nobody on the phone. I just, came silent, came silent, came silent, because it's such a heavy word.", because it's such a heavy word.", because it's such a heavy word.", But I saw the outcome of him not being, But I saw the outcome of him not being, But I saw the outcome of him not being, in presidency, Is he the savior? No. That's the point, Is he the savior? No. That's the point, of what I'm trying to get across to you., of what I'm trying to get across to you., of what I'm trying to get across to you., The only person who will save America is, The only person who will save America is, The only person who will save America is, the Lord Jesus Christ. But he'll use, the Lord Jesus Christ. But he'll use, the Lord Jesus Christ. But he'll use, individuals., individuals., individuals., But when they get too big ahead and they, But when they get too big ahead and they, But when they get too big ahead and they, get in the way, guess what? They open a, get in the way, guess what? They open a, get in the way, guess what? They open a, door. Does God kill, steal, and destroy?, door. Does God kill, steal, and destroy?, door. Does God kill, steal, and destroy?, Let me ask you that. Does God kill, Let me ask you that. Does God kill, Let me ask you that. Does God kill, steal, and destroy?, steal, and destroy?, steal, and destroy?, Some of you may say yes, and some of you, Some of you may say yes, and some of you, Some of you may say yes, and some of you, are going to say heaven's no, just like, are going to say heaven's no, just like, are going to say heaven's no, just like, me., me., me., No. The Bible says that that the devil, No. The Bible says that that the devil, No. The Bible says that that the devil, comes to kill, steal, and destroy. God, comes to kill, steal, and destroy. God, comes to kill, steal, and destroy. God, said, "I have come that you might have, said, "I have come that you might have, said, "I have come that you might have, life and life more abundantly." That's, life and life more abundantly." That's, life and life more abundantly." That's, very clear., very clear., very clear., Choose life., Choose life., Choose life., Choose life. That's what he told us., Choose life. That's what he told us., Choose life. That's what he told us., Choose life., Choose life., Choose life., It's a choice., It's a choice., It's a choice., So, that's what we're going to do. So, So, that's what we're going to do. So, So, that's what we're going to do. So, we're going to pray tonight. We're going, we're going to pray tonight. We're going, we're going to pray tonight. We're going, to pray over this nation. We're going to, to pray over this nation. We're going to, to pray over this nation. We're going to, pray over this this storm and we're, pray over this this storm and we're, pray over this this storm and we're, going to keep calling it to weaken that, going to keep calling it to weaken that, going to keep calling it to weaken that, and weaken and just move faster. Move, and weaken and just move faster. Move, and weaken and just move faster. Move, faster. I started talking about I told, faster. I started talking about I told, faster. I started talking about I told, the Lord said Brandon when I was praying, the Lord said Brandon when I was praying, the Lord said Brandon when I was praying, over I said, "What's the slow it down, over I said, "What's the slow it down, over I said, "What's the slow it down, and bring in the colder air quicker?", and bring in the colder air quicker?", and bring in the colder air quicker?", And that was my, you know, I I don't, And that was my, you know, I I don't, And that was my, you know, I I don't, think a lot of problem solving, you, think a lot of problem solving, you, think a lot of problem solving, you, know, with the things I've overcome. And, know, with the things I've overcome. And, know, with the things I've overcome. And, I told I told talking about, "Daddy, I told I told talking about, "Daddy, I told I told talking about, "Daddy, wouldn't it be better to go faster?, wouldn't it be better to go faster?, wouldn't it be better to go faster?, Let's move it. Let's get it out of here, Let's move it. Let's get it out of here, Let's move it. Let's get it out of here, quick. Let's get that low pressure out, quick. Let's get that low pressure out, quick. Let's get that low pressure out, of here as fast as possible. Don't slow, of here as fast as possible. Don't slow, of here as fast as possible. Don't slow, it down, Dad. I said, "Yeah, you know, it down, Dad. I said, "Yeah, you know, it down, Dad. I said, "Yeah, you know, I'm thinking, well, if we could just get, I'm thinking, well, if we could just get, I'm thinking, well, if we could just get, the cold air down and move it up north, the cold air down and move it up north, the cold air down and move it up north, you know, the snow happened up there., you know, the snow happened up there., you know, the snow happened up there., Chicago is used to snow. We're not used, Chicago is used to snow. We're not used, Chicago is used to snow. We're not used, to ice down here, you know, in Oklahoma, to ice down here, you know, in Oklahoma, to ice down here, you know, in Oklahoma, Texas." But I'm going to tell you, you, Texas." But I'm going to tell you, you, Texas." But I'm going to tell you, you, know, in my mind, I'm thinking, you got, know, in my mind, I'm thinking, you got, know, in my mind, I'm thinking, you got, to come up, think smarter. That's what, to come up, think smarter. That's what, to come up, think smarter. That's what, I'm telling you. It's just Jesus., I'm telling you. It's just Jesus., I'm telling you. It's just Jesus., All glory to God when it comes to, All glory to God when it comes to, All glory to God when it comes to, Brandon. So, um, I feel the anointing of the Holy Ghost, I feel the anointing of the Holy Ghost, now I'm so thankful that he would he, now I'm so thankful that he would he, now I'm so thankful that he would he, would come., I pray for this great nation, I pray for this great nation, that it remains great. He said, I will, that it remains great. He said, I will, that it remains great. He said, I will, not allow your nation to become a goat, not allow your nation to become a goat, not allow your nation to become a goat, nation. I will keep you a sheep nation., nation. I will keep you a sheep nation., nation. I will keep you a sheep nation., When I talked about the wound and I, When I talked about the wound and I, When I talked about the wound and I, talked about the things that I saw, I, talked about the things that I saw, I, talked about the things that I saw, I, didn't know what it was. But now you can, didn't know what it was. But now you can, didn't know what it was. But now you can, see what it was., see what it was., see what it was., It would be a wound that would not be, It would be a wound that would not be, It would be a wound that would not be, fatal, but it would shake the church, through the valley of decision. It's his, through the valley of decision. It's his, choice. Do you go this way or are you, choice. Do you go this way or are you, choice. Do you go this way or are you, going to go this way? Sir, going to go this way? Sir, going to go this way? Sir, go the right path. from Jesus. We pray, go the right path. from Jesus. We pray, go the right path. from Jesus. We pray, for your safety., for your safety., for your safety., This is what the Lord said, not Brandon., This is what the Lord said, not Brandon., This is what the Lord said, not Brandon., This is what I saw from the heavenly, This is what I saw from the heavenly, This is what I saw from the heavenly, father., father., father., And he said, "Pray for him., And he said, "Pray for him., And he said, "Pray for him., Pray for the counsel that is around him., Pray for the counsel that is around him., Pray for the counsel that is around him., For I have a plan for his life, For I have a plan for his life, For I have a plan for his life, but he's in the valley of decision.", but he's in the valley of decision.", but he's in the valley of decision.", What will you choose today?, What will you choose today?, What will you choose today?, to follow Jesus., to follow Jesus., to follow Jesus., He spared him once., He spared him once., He spared him once., He spared him twice on the golf course, He spared him twice on the golf course, He spared him twice on the golf course, and even more times that we probably, and even more times that we probably, and even more times that we probably, don't even know about. How many times is, don't even know about. How many times is, don't even know about. How many times is, a thousand shall fall at your side and, a thousand shall fall at your side and, a thousand shall fall at your side and, 10,000 at your right hand, but nothing, 10,000 at your right hand, but nothing, 10,000 at your right hand, but nothing, shall come nigh you? Humble yourself, shall come nigh you? Humble yourself, shall come nigh you? Humble yourself, underneath the mighty hand of God, and, underneath the mighty hand of God, and, underneath the mighty hand of God, and, in due time he will exalt you., in due time he will exalt you., in due time he will exalt you., you're in the time of the valley of, you're in the time of the valley of, you're in the time of the valley of, decision, decision, decision, coming into even November. And that's, coming into even November. And that's, coming into even November. And that's, what the Lord said., So after all that and I found out that, So after all that and I found out that, his wife's pregnant with child, his wife's pregnant with child, his wife's pregnant with child, she's due in uh July for what I, she's due in uh July for what I, she's due in uh July for what I, understand., understand., understand., When I heard that, I about fell over., My My son said, "Daddy, My My son said, "Daddy, JD Vance's wife's pregnant.", So, will you help me, church?, So, will you help me, church?, Can we pray?, Can we pray?, Can we pray?, Will you take it serious?, Will you take it serious?, Will you take it serious?, It's not here for your entertainment., It's not here for your entertainment., It's not here for your entertainment., I've been assigned by the the Lord Jesus, I've been assigned by the the Lord Jesus, I've been assigned by the the Lord Jesus, to tell you of what's to come and how we, to tell you of what's to come and how we, to tell you of what's to come and how we, can change it through prayer. So, we're, can change it through prayer. So, we're, can change it through prayer. So, we're, going to pray now. We're going to take, going to pray now. We're going to take, going to pray now. We're going to take, communion and we're going to pray for, communion and we're going to pray for, communion and we're going to pray for, our president and that he'll make godly, our president and that he'll make godly, our president and that he'll make godly, decisions concerning Greenland., Okay?, Okay?, Maybe there's another way., Maybe there's another way., Maybe there's another way., You know, some say he won't take it by, You know, some say he won't take it by, You know, some say he won't take it by, military force. I don't know. I I'm not, military force. I don't know. I I'm not, military force. I don't know. I I'm not, go I don't know what the Lord's looking, go I don't know what the Lord's looking, go I don't know what the Lord's looking, for. I'm not a I'm not a counselor. All, for. I'm not a I'm not a counselor. All, for. I'm not a I'm not a counselor. All, I know is the Lord said it's concerning, I know is the Lord said it's concerning, I know is the Lord said it's concerning, Greenland and the decisions concerning, Greenland and the decisions concerning, Greenland and the decisions concerning, Europe and Iran and the days ahead and, Europe and Iran and the days ahead and, Europe and Iran and the days ahead and, how it handles Israel and and Gaza and, how it handles Israel and and Gaza and, how it handles Israel and and Gaza and, all the things ahead of it., all the things ahead of it., all the things ahead of it., I've warned about splitting Jerusalem, a, I've warned about splitting Jerusalem, a, I've warned about splitting Jerusalem, a, two-state solution. I said if that, two-state solution. I said if that, two-state solution. I said if that, happens, I saw America be split right, happens, I saw America be split right, happens, I saw America be split right, down the middle. I don't believe he's, down the middle. I don't believe he's, down the middle. I don't believe he's, for a two-state solution., for a two-state solution., for a two-state solution., I don't believe anything. I All I know, I don't believe anything. I All I know, I don't believe anything. I All I know, is is just to pray because that's as far, is is just to pray because that's as far, is is just to pray because that's as far, as the word went. So what he's supposed, as the word went. So what he's supposed, as the word went. So what he's supposed, to do, I have no idea. He didn't say, to do, I have no idea. He didn't say, to do, I have no idea. He didn't say, "Bren, I want you to be on his, "Bren, I want you to be on his, "Bren, I want you to be on his, counseling board and tell him what to, counseling board and tell him what to, counseling board and tell him what to, do." He said, "Pray for him." That's, do." He said, "Pray for him." That's, do." He said, "Pray for him." That's, what he said. He didn't say, "Well, you, what he said. He didn't say, "Well, you, what he said. He didn't say, "Well, you, have it all figured out, Brandon. I want, have it all figured out, Brandon. I want, have it all figured out, Brandon. I want, to send send you there and you can go, to send send you there and you can go, to send send you there and you can go, and talk to him and tell him what's, and talk to him and tell him what's, and talk to him and tell him what's, going to be, you know, how the cow ate, going to be, you know, how the cow ate, going to be, you know, how the cow ate, the cabbage." That's not what he said., the cabbage." That's not what he said., the cabbage." That's not what he said., HE SAID, "I WANT YOU TO INTERCEDE on, HE SAID, "I WANT YOU TO INTERCEDE on, HE SAID, "I WANT YOU TO INTERCEDE on, your platform." So everybody said, your platform." So everybody said, your platform." So everybody said, "What's what's HIS IS WHAT'S THE CHOICE?, "What's what's HIS IS WHAT'S THE CHOICE?, "What's what's HIS IS WHAT'S THE CHOICE?, HOW DO WE STOP THIS?" I DON'T HAVE A, HOW DO WE STOP THIS?" I DON'T HAVE A, HOW DO WE STOP THIS?" I DON'T HAVE A, CLUE., CLUE., CLUE., All I know is the Lord said to pray. So, All I know is the Lord said to pray. So, All I know is the Lord said to pray. So, that's what I have., So, okay, So, okay, I did it. I delivered it. B, I did it. I delivered it. B, I did it. I delivered it. B, that was so hard., When you when you get something off your, When you when you get something off your, back you've been carrying for a while, back you've been carrying for a while, back you've been carrying for a while, it felt better., it felt better., it felt better., The Lord said, "I told you I was going, The Lord said, "I told you I was going, The Lord said, "I told you I was going, to have you say the hard things, and, to have you say the hard things, and, to have you say the hard things, and, that wasn't even hard for what you'll, that wasn't even hard for what you'll, that wasn't even hard for what you'll, say in the future. And I said, "Oh, say in the future. And I said, "Oh, say in the future. And I said, "Oh, God.", God.", God.", Because that was that was that was hard., So we pray over it. All right. So, So we pray over it. All right. So, Father, we lift up the body., Father, we lift up the body., Father, we lift up the body., We thank you, Lord, for the body that, We thank you, Lord, for the body that, We thank you, Lord, for the body that, was broken for us., was broken for us., was broken for us., We thank you, Lord, that you're our, We thank you, Lord, that you're our, We thank you, Lord, that you're our, healer. You are our deliverer. And we, healer. You are our deliverer. And we, healer. You are our deliverer. And we, thank you, Lord, that by your stripes, thank you, Lord, that by your stripes, thank you, Lord, that by your stripes, we're healed., we're healed., we're healed., And Lord, we take this and we're so, And Lord, we take this and we're so, And Lord, we take this and we're so, grateful for all that you've done., Who we, Who we, thank you, Father., thank you, Father., thank you, Father., We take this body in the name of Jesus, We take this body in the name of Jesus, We take this body in the name of Jesus, and we give you all the glory, honor, and we give you all the glory, honor, and we give you all the glory, honor, and praise for it in Jesus name. Amen., and praise for it in Jesus name. Amen., and praise for it in Jesus name. Amen., Amen., Amen., Amen., Now Lord, if you want to show us, Now Lord, if you want to show us, Now Lord, if you want to show us, anything else, anything else, anything else, Lord, we yield oursel to you., Lord, we yield oursel to you., Lord, we yield oursel to you., I yield to the anointing of the, I yield to the anointing of the, I yield to the anointing of the, prophetic, prophetic, prophetic, and I thank you, Father, that we fly, and I thank you, Father, that we fly, and I thank you, Father, that we fly, like the eagles and we see that which is, like the eagles and we see that which is, like the eagles and we see that which is, to come., to come., to come., And I plead the blood of Jesus over me, And I plead the blood of Jesus over me, And I plead the blood of Jesus over me, uninterrupted and unhindered by any, uninterrupted and unhindered by any, uninterrupted and unhindered by any, satanic or demonic force. I apply the, satanic or demonic force. I apply the, satanic or demonic force. I apply the, blood of Jesus, blood of Jesus, blood of Jesus, over us. And we thank you, Lord. We make, over us. And we thank you, Lord. We make, over us. And we thank you, Lord. We make, much of the blood and the blood makes, much of the blood and the blood makes, much of the blood and the blood makes, much of us., much of us., much of us., And we have plead the blood. We plead, And we have plead the blood. We plead, And we have plead the blood. We plead, the blood in the name of Jesus. And we, the blood in the name of Jesus. And we, the blood in the name of Jesus. And we, thank you, Lord, that Father, your hand, thank you, Lord, that Father, your hand, thank you, Lord, that Father, your hand, is on us. And we give you glory, honor, is on us. And we give you glory, honor, is on us. And we give you glory, honor, and praise in the name of Jesus., and praise in the name of Jesus., and praise in the name of Jesus., And we we we thank you. We confess our, And we we we thank you. We confess our, And we we we thank you. We confess our, sins before you, Father, and you are, sins before you, Father, and you are, sins before you, Father, and you are, faithful and just to forgive us of our, faithful and just to forgive us of our, faithful and just to forgive us of our, sins and cleanse us from all, sins and cleanse us from all, sins and cleanse us from all, unrighteousness., unrighteousness., unrighteousness., And Lord, we're just here for you., And Lord, we're just here for you., And Lord, we're just here for you., And we yield oursel to you tonight, And we yield oursel to you tonight, And we yield oursel to you tonight, Father. And I apply the blood over this, Father. And I apply the blood over this, Father. And I apply the blood over this, room. I apply the blood over my, room. I apply the blood over my, room. I apply the blood over my, children, over us, our finest, children, over us, our finest, children, over us, our finest, everything, Father. I cover us in the, everything, Father. I cover us in the, everything, Father. I cover us in the, blood, Father. And I thank you, Lord. No, blood, Father. And I thank you, Lord. No, blood, Father. And I thank you, Lord. No, weapon formed against us will prosper in, weapon formed against us will prosper in, weapon formed against us will prosper in, the mighty name of Jesus. Amen and amen., the mighty name of Jesus. Amen and amen., the mighty name of Jesus. Amen and amen., You take the blood., You take the blood., You take the blood., He said do this often and in remembrance, He said do this often and in remembrance, He said do this often and in remembrance, of me what he did what he do for us., of me what he did what he do for us., of me what he did what he do for us., Jesus paid the price and he made us, Jesus paid the price and he made us, Jesus paid the price and he made us, free., free., free., Isn't he wonderful? Isn't Jesus, Isn't he wonderful? Isn't Jesus, Isn't he wonderful? Isn't Jesus, wonderful?, wonderful?, wonderful?, We give all of the glory to Jesus, We give all of the glory to Jesus, We give all of the glory to Jesus, and tell of his love. His wonderful, and tell of his love. His wonderful, and tell of his love. His wonderful, love. We give all of the glory to Jesus, love. We give all of the glory to Jesus, love. We give all of the glory to Jesus, and tell of his wonderful love., and tell of his wonderful love., and tell of his wonderful love., So, okay. So, let's pray now. Who wants, So, okay. So, let's pray now. Who wants, So, okay. So, let's pray now. Who wants, to go tubing for a little bit? How How, to go tubing for a little bit? How How, to go tubing for a little bit? How How, long was this? Did I do that pretty, long was this? Did I do that pretty, long was this? Did I do that pretty, quick, huh? Yeah., quick, huh? Yeah., quick, huh? Yeah., &gt;&gt; Too long. Hour, &gt;&gt; Too long. Hour, &gt;&gt; Too long. Hour, and 20 minutes., and 20 minutes., and 20 minutes., &gt;&gt; Yeah. Almost., &gt;&gt; Yeah. Almost., &gt;&gt; Yeah. Almost., &gt;&gt; Well, that was great., &gt;&gt; Well, that was great., &gt;&gt; Well, that was great., &gt;&gt; It is. It is what it is. You If you want, &gt;&gt; It is. It is what it is. You If you want, &gt;&gt; It is. It is what it is. You If you want, to be here, be here. If you don't, to be here, be here. If you don't, to be here, be here. If you don't, don't., don't., don't., &gt;&gt; So, Father, we just lift up this time, &gt;&gt; So, Father, we just lift up this time, &gt;&gt; So, Father, we just lift up this time, before you and we just thank you, Lord., Which way do you want me to go first, Which way do you want me to go first, Lord? Because I Father, we cover, Lord? Because I Father, we cover, Lord? Because I Father, we cover, President Trump in the name of Jesus., President Trump in the name of Jesus., President Trump in the name of Jesus., and we lift up his family, his wife, his, and we lift up his family, his wife, his, and we lift up his family, his wife, his, sons, his daughters, his grandchildren., sons, his daughters, his grandchildren., sons, his daughters, his grandchildren., And we thank you, Lord, that there's a, And we thank you, Lord, that there's a, And we thank you, Lord, that there's a, hedge around and about them. I thank, hedge around and about them. I thank, hedge around and about them. I thank, you, Father, as the church that prays, a, you, Father, as the church that prays, a, you, Father, as the church that prays, a, believing church, a believing believers, believing church, a believing believers, believing church, a believing believers, that Father, we take authority over the, that Father, we take authority over the, that Father, we take authority over the, evil council in the name of Jesus that, evil council in the name of Jesus that, evil council in the name of Jesus that, has surrounded him. And we say, "Satan, has surrounded him. And we say, "Satan, has surrounded him. And we say, "Satan, thus far and no further, we plead the, thus far and no further, we plead the, thus far and no further, we plead the, blood of Jesus OVER OUR NATION, OVER OUR, blood of Jesus OVER OUR NATION, OVER OUR, blood of Jesus OVER OUR NATION, OVER OUR, PRESIDENT, OVER HIS CABINET. AND WE, PRESIDENT, OVER HIS CABINET. AND WE, PRESIDENT, OVER HIS CABINET. AND WE, THANK YOU, LORD, THAT YOU EXPOSE AND, THANK YOU, LORD, THAT YOU EXPOSE AND, THANK YOU, LORD, THAT YOU EXPOSE AND, REMOVE THE RATS. WE COMMAND THE RATS TO, REMOVE THE RATS. WE COMMAND THE RATS TO, REMOVE THE RATS. WE COMMAND THE RATS TO, GO, FATHER, THE PEOPLE THAT ARE THERE ON, GO, FATHER, THE PEOPLE THAT ARE THERE ON, GO, FATHER, THE PEOPLE THAT ARE THERE ON, ILL ASSIGNMENT FOR THE FROM THE ENEMY., ILL ASSIGNMENT FOR THE FROM THE ENEMY., ILL ASSIGNMENT FOR THE FROM THE ENEMY., FATHER, I THANK YOU THAT YOU WOULD, FATHER, I THANK YOU THAT YOU WOULD, FATHER, I THANK YOU THAT YOU WOULD, EXPOSE THEM THROUGH A TEXT. YOU WOULD, EXPOSE THEM THROUGH A TEXT. YOU WOULD, EXPOSE THEM THROUGH A TEXT. YOU WOULD, EXPOSE THEM THROUGH WHAT THEY SAY THAT, EXPOSE THEM THROUGH WHAT THEY SAY THAT, EXPOSE THEM THROUGH WHAT THEY SAY THAT, THEY'LL BE CAUGHT IN WHAT THEY DO. THAT, THEY'LL BE CAUGHT IN WHAT THEY DO. THAT, THEY'LL BE CAUGHT IN WHAT THEY DO. THAT, FATHER THAT THE PEOPLE THAT ARE SUPPOSED, FATHER THAT THE PEOPLE THAT ARE SUPPOSED, FATHER THAT THE PEOPLE THAT ARE SUPPOSED, TO BE AROUND HIM, TO BE AROUND HIM, TO BE AROUND HIM, THERE WOULD BE A PEACE THAT FLOWS, THERE WOULD BE A PEACE THAT FLOWS, THERE WOULD BE A PEACE THAT FLOWS, through him. He would know you know what, through him. He would know you know what, through him. He would know you know what, I know this is just right, I know this is just right, I know this is just right, and where the the uh where the enemy is, and where the the uh where the enemy is, and where the the uh where the enemy is, there and trying to e do evil counsel, there and trying to e do evil counsel, there and trying to e do evil counsel, and ungodly thoughts. We thank you that, and ungodly thoughts. We thank you that, and ungodly thoughts. We thank you that, there's confusion in every work, evil, there's confusion in every work, evil, there's confusion in every work, evil, work THAT THERE'LL BE SO MUCH SO THAT, work THAT THERE'LL BE SO MUCH SO THAT, work THAT THERE'LL BE SO MUCH SO THAT, THEY'LL NOT BE ABLE TO GET it out right, THEY'LL NOT BE ABLE TO GET it out right, THEY'LL NOT BE ABLE TO GET it out right, because there's no flow over it. It'll, because there's no flow over it. It'll, because there's no flow over it. It'll, just be like I don't even know what I'm, just be like I don't even know what I'm, just be like I don't even know what I'm, saying. You know, I'm just going to go, saying. You know, I'm just going to go, saying. You know, I'm just going to go, on whatever they there'll be a, on whatever they there'll be a, on whatever they there'll be a, confusion, Father, over the evil and a, confusion, Father, over the evil and a, confusion, Father, over the evil and a, flow WITH THE GOOD. GODLY COUNSEL will, flow WITH THE GOOD. GODLY COUNSEL will, flow WITH THE GOOD. GODLY COUNSEL will, stand and flow. Evil counsel will fall., stand and flow. Evil counsel will fall., stand and flow. Evil counsel will fall., And we thank you, Lord, that they'll not, And we thank you, Lord, that they'll not, And we thank you, Lord, that they'll not, even be able to get it done and out, even be able to get it done and out, even be able to get it done and out, because they can't because the hand of, because they can't because the hand of, because they can't because the hand of, the Lord is upon them., the Lord is upon them., the Lord is upon them., We thank you, Lord, THAT THE HAND OF THE, We thank you, Lord, THAT THE HAND OF THE, We thank you, Lord, THAT THE HAND OF THE, Lord is moving in our behalf. Father, Lord is moving in our behalf. Father, Lord is moving in our behalf. Father, you're our you're our father and you, you're our you're our father and you, you're our you're our father and you, told us to pray. So, we humble oursel, told us to pray. So, we humble oursel, told us to pray. So, we humble oursel, before you, Father. We know we can't do, before you, Father. We know we can't do, before you, Father. We know we can't do, this without you., this without you., this without you., But God, you told us to take our, But God, you told us to take our, But God, you told us to take our, authority. And you said that you've, authority. And you said that you've, authority. And you said that you've, given us us power and authority. And I, given us us power and authority. And I, given us us power and authority. And I, believe tonight, Lord, we take our, believe tonight, Lord, we take our, believe tonight, Lord, we take our, rightful place of authority over this, rightful place of authority over this, rightful place of authority over this, nation, nation, nation, over our president., over our president., over our president., AND YOU SAID TO PRAY FOR OUR LEADERS and, AND YOU SAID TO PRAY FOR OUR LEADERS and, AND YOU SAID TO PRAY FOR OUR LEADERS and, our judges AND FATHER THE SUPREME COURT, our judges AND FATHER THE SUPREME COURT, our judges AND FATHER THE SUPREME COURT, AND THE DECISION THEY'RE ABOUT TO MAKE, AND THE DECISION THEY'RE ABOUT TO MAKE, AND THE DECISION THEY'RE ABOUT TO MAKE, CONCERNING THE TARIFFS, CONCERNING THE, CONCERNING THE TARIFFS, CONCERNING THE, CONCERNING THE TARIFFS, CONCERNING THE, LAWS, CONCERNING UH ALL THE MAJOR, LAWS, CONCERNING UH ALL THE MAJOR, LAWS, CONCERNING UH ALL THE MAJOR, DECISIONS CONCERNING THE FED AND JEROME, DECISIONS CONCERNING THE FED AND JEROME, DECISIONS CONCERNING THE FED AND JEROME, PAL., PAL., PAL., We thank you Lord that you're bringing, We thank you Lord that you're bringing, We thank you Lord that you're bringing, in a new Fed chair, head of the Fed, in a new Fed chair, head of the Fed, in a new Fed chair, head of the Fed, chair. I've seen her. It's a woman I, chair. I've seen her. It's a woman I, chair. I've seen her. It's a woman I, believe., I thank you, Lord, that you appoint that, I thank you, Lord, that you appoint that, person, person, person, to help pull this economy up by its, to help pull this economy up by its, to help pull this economy up by its, bootstraps, bootstraps, bootstraps, and give us a a a window of opportunity, and give us a a a window of opportunity, and give us a a a window of opportunity, for a great manifestation of a wealth, for a great manifestation of a wealth, for a great manifestation of a wealth, transfer through the pink currency, the, transfer through the pink currency, the, transfer through the pink currency, the, dinar, dinar, dinar, I believe, not financial advice, my, I believe, not financial advice, my, I believe, not financial advice, my, opinion, and other cryptos and and and, opinion, and other cryptos and and and, opinion, and other cryptos and and and, housing and all whatever you we the Lord, housing and all whatever you we the Lord, housing and all whatever you we the Lord, says, says, says, five major pots., And I thank you, Lord, that you this, And I thank you, Lord, that you this, this stuff happens and it happens, this stuff happens and it happens, this stuff happens and it happens, quickly in the name of Jesus. That, quickly in the name of Jesus. That, quickly in the name of Jesus. That, you're warning our behalf concerning, you're warning our behalf concerning, you're warning our behalf concerning, this. And that, Father, we put a new Fed, this. And that, Father, we put a new Fed, this. And that, Father, we put a new Fed, chair in there that will do the interest, chair in there that will do the interest, chair in there that will do the interest, rates like they're supposed to., We know this thing's going to the bubble, We know this thing's going to the bubble, is going to pop. No matter how many, is going to pop. No matter how many, is going to pop. No matter how many, people say we can save this, we know, people say we can save this, we know, people say we can save this, we know, what the end time says. And it's coming, what the end time says. And it's coming, what the end time says. And it's coming, to a new world order and a new world, to a new world order and a new world, to a new world order and a new world, currency., currency., currency., There's no no making America huge and, There's no no making America huge and, There's no no making America huge and, great again. It's making America uh, great again. It's making America uh, great again. It's making America uh, sustainable again, sustainable again, sustainable again, to to float since Joe Biden and him all, to to float since Joe Biden and him all, to to float since Joe Biden and him all, sunk the ship. But to make the it, sunk the ship. But to make the it, sunk the ship. But to make the it, salvageable, to make it work, he took, salvageable, to make it work, he took, salvageable, to make it work, he took, the pieces back and he built something, the pieces back and he built something, the pieces back and he built something, that wasn't totally functioning. I mean, that wasn't totally functioning. I mean, that wasn't totally functioning. I mean, it wasn't a jet like it used to be. It, it wasn't a jet like it used to be. It, it wasn't a jet like it used to be. It, was just a functioning, was just a functioning, was just a functioning, &gt;&gt; to, &gt;&gt; to, &gt;&gt; to, &gt;&gt; make it usable., &gt;&gt; make it usable., &gt;&gt; make it usable., &gt;&gt; Make it usable. That's what we saw. To, &gt;&gt; Make it usable. That's what we saw. To, &gt;&gt; Make it usable. That's what we saw. To, make it usable., make it usable., make it usable., Father, I thank you Lord for for we will, Father, I thank you Lord for for we will, Father, I thank you Lord for for we will, have a time of of wealth of the wicked, have a time of of wealth of the wicked, have a time of of wealth of the wicked, laid up for the righteous., laid up for the righteous., laid up for the righteous., That father the church will flourish and, That father the church will flourish and, That father the church will flourish and, father that we will not lack any good, father that we will not lack any good, father that we will not lack any good, thing. We will owe man nothing but to, thing. We will owe man nothing but to, thing. We will owe man nothing but to, love him and the goodness and mercy, love him and the goodness and mercy, love him and the goodness and mercy, follow us all the days of our life. I, follow us all the days of our life. I, follow us all the days of our life. I, thank you, Father, for creative ideas to, thank you, Father, for creative ideas to, thank you, Father, for creative ideas to, do what we need to do, Father. But I, do what we need to do, Father. But I, do what we need to do, Father. But I, thank you that the same is on President, thank you that the same is on President, thank you that the same is on President, Trump to bring peace to Jerusalem, to, Trump to bring peace to Jerusalem, to, Trump to bring peace to Jerusalem, to, fix the Gaza, which is just destroyed, you know, from all the war., you know, from all the war., And we call peace to that area in the, And we call peace to that area in the, And we call peace to that area in the, name of Jesus with wisdom. Now, is this, name of Jesus with wisdom. Now, is this, name of Jesus with wisdom. Now, is this, the Antichrist stuff coming about and, the Antichrist stuff coming about and, the Antichrist stuff coming about and, Ezekiel 3839 about to take off? I, Ezekiel 3839 about to take off? I, Ezekiel 3839 about to take off? I, believe so., believe so., believe so., Is this the covenant of many coming, Is this the covenant of many coming, Is this the covenant of many coming, about? I believe it is. We're about to, about? I believe it is. We're about to, about? I believe it is. We're about to, see something major., see something major., see something major., And I believe there's this this is the, And I believe there's this this is the, And I believe there's this this is the, signs of the times of the coming of the, signs of the times of the coming of the, signs of the times of the coming of the, Lord. But Father, I know in what you say, Lord. But Father, I know in what you say, Lord. But Father, I know in what you say, that you want a major harvest of souls., that you want a major harvest of souls., that you want a major harvest of souls., So, Father, we lift up President Trump., So, Father, we lift up President Trump., So, Father, we lift up President Trump., We lift up JD Vance. We thank you Lord, We lift up JD Vance. We thank you Lord, We lift up JD Vance. We thank you Lord, Elim for Elon Musk. I call Elon Musk, Elim for Elon Musk. I call Elon Musk, Elim for Elon Musk. I call Elon Musk, born again. I ask you father to, born again. I ask you father to, born again. I ask you father to, radically save Elon Musk. That father, radically save Elon Musk. That father, radically save Elon Musk. That father, that he is not too far gone for you to, that he is not too far gone for you to, that he is not too far gone for you to, radically touch. Father I thank you that, radically touch. Father I thank you that, radically touch. Father I thank you that, the Alati Kamini is is removed and a, the Alati Kamini is is removed and a, the Alati Kamini is is removed and a, major revival breaks out in the in in, major revival breaks out in the in in, major revival breaks out in the in in, Iran. that father Persia will will be, Iran. that father Persia will will be, Iran. that father Persia will will be, crumbled and that father as far as uh, crumbled and that father as far as uh, crumbled and that father as far as uh, the dictators over it and THAT THE, the dictators over it and THAT THE, the dictators over it and THAT THE, CHURCH HAS THEIR HOUR TO RISE AND SHINE, CHURCH HAS THEIR HOUR TO RISE AND SHINE, CHURCH HAS THEIR HOUR TO RISE AND SHINE, FOR THE LIGHT HAS COME AND THE GLORY OF, FOR THE LIGHT HAS COME AND THE GLORY OF, FOR THE LIGHT HAS COME AND THE GLORY OF, THE LORD HAS RISEN ON THEM. WE CALLED, THE LORD HAS RISEN ON THEM. WE CALLED, THE LORD HAS RISEN ON THEM. WE CALLED, FOR THE FOR FOR ALL OF IRAN TO RISE UP, FOR THE FOR FOR ALL OF IRAN TO RISE UP, FOR THE FOR FOR ALL OF IRAN TO RISE UP, in the name of Jesus and to do the the, in the name of Jesus and to do the the, in the name of Jesus and to do the the, the the the church there TO RISE UP AND, the the the church there TO RISE UP AND, the the the church there TO RISE UP AND, TO PROCLAIM THAT JESUS THE LORD WITH, TO PROCLAIM THAT JESUS THE LORD WITH, TO PROCLAIM THAT JESUS THE LORD WITH, SIGNS WILL FOLLOW THEM THAT BELIEVE THAT, SIGNS WILL FOLLOW THEM THAT BELIEVE THAT, SIGNS WILL FOLLOW THEM THAT BELIEVE THAT, FATHER WHEN THEY LAY HANDS ON THE SICK, FATHER WHEN THEY LAY HANDS ON THE SICK, FATHER WHEN THEY LAY HANDS ON THE SICK, THEY WILL RECOVER. WHEN THEY CAN CAST, THEY WILL RECOVER. WHEN THEY CAN CAST, THEY WILL RECOVER. WHEN THEY CAN CAST, OUT DEVILS IN YOUR NAME, THEY WILL RAISE, OUT DEVILS IN YOUR NAME, THEY WILL RAISE, OUT DEVILS IN YOUR NAME, THEY WILL RAISE, THE DEAD. AND I THANK YOU LORD THAT, THE DEAD. AND I THANK YOU LORD THAT, THE DEAD. AND I THANK YOU LORD THAT, FATHER THAT KIND OF CHURCH IS RISING UP, FATHER THAT KIND OF CHURCH IS RISING UP, FATHER THAT KIND OF CHURCH IS RISING UP, in Iran right now in the name OF JESUS., in Iran right now in the name OF JESUS., in Iran right now in the name OF JESUS., THE UNDERGROUND CHURCH IS COMING UP WITH, THE UNDERGROUND CHURCH IS COMING UP WITH, THE UNDERGROUND CHURCH IS COMING UP WITH, BOLDNESS AND YOU'RE REMOVING THE THE, BOLDNESS AND YOU'RE REMOVING THE THE, BOLDNESS AND YOU'RE REMOVING THE THE, DICTATORS AND ALL OF THE OPPRESSION AND, DICTATORS AND ALL OF THE OPPRESSION AND, DICTATORS AND ALL OF THE OPPRESSION AND, SUPPRESSION IN THE NAME OF JESUS. AND, SUPPRESSION IN THE NAME OF JESUS. AND, SUPPRESSION IN THE NAME OF JESUS. AND, YOU'RE BRINGING FORTH LIBERTY TO THEM, YOU'RE BRINGING FORTH LIBERTY TO THEM, YOU'RE BRINGING FORTH LIBERTY TO THEM, that ask for it., that ask for it., that ask for it., I believe, Father, that that the the, I believe, Father, that that the the, I believe, Father, that that the the, martyrs and the people that their blood, martyrs and the people that their blood, martyrs and the people that their blood, is crying out from the ground for, is crying out from the ground for, is crying out from the ground for, vengeance., vengeance., vengeance., The blood of THE MARTYRS, THE BLOOD OF, The blood of THE MARTYRS, THE BLOOD OF, The blood of THE MARTYRS, THE BLOOD OF, THE CHURCH OF IRAN IS CRYING OUT FOR, THE CHURCH OF IRAN IS CRYING OUT FOR, THE CHURCH OF IRAN IS CRYING OUT FOR, VENGEANCE, OH LORD., VENGEANCE, OH LORD., VENGEANCE, OH LORD., And Father, I thank you, Lord, that, And Father, I thank you, Lord, that, And Father, I thank you, Lord, that, their blood will not go unnoticed. That, their blood will not go unnoticed. That, their blood will not go unnoticed. That, there will be that their blood will not, there will be that their blood will not, there will be that their blood will not, go unre avenged. That there will be in, go unre avenged. That there will be in, go unre avenged. That there will be in, the name of Jesus a major revival for, the name of Jesus a major revival for, the name of Jesus a major revival for, their loss. A MAJOR HARVEST OF SOULS FOR, their loss. A MAJOR HARVEST OF SOULS FOR, their loss. A MAJOR HARVEST OF SOULS FOR, THEY WERE THE SEED. THEY WERE THAT SEED, THEY WERE THE SEED. THEY WERE THAT SEED, THEY WERE THE SEED. THEY WERE THAT SEED, AND SOME PLANT, SOME WATER, AND SOME, AND SOME PLANT, SOME WATER, AND SOME, AND SOME PLANT, SOME WATER, AND SOME, BRING FORTH THE INCREASE. AND LORD, IT'S, BRING FORTH THE INCREASE. AND LORD, IT'S, BRING FORTH THE INCREASE. AND LORD, IT'S, TIME FOR THE INCREASE., TIME FOR THE INCREASE., TIME FOR THE INCREASE., AND I KNOW THAT YOU SAID WE'D BE, AND I KNOW THAT YOU SAID WE'D BE, AND I KNOW THAT YOU SAID WE'D BE, PERSECUTED FOR THE WORD'S SAKE. BUT, PERSECUTED FOR THE WORD'S SAKE. BUT, PERSECUTED FOR THE WORD'S SAKE. BUT, LORD, I THANK YOU, LORD, FOR A DIVINE, LORD, I THANK YOU, LORD, FOR A DIVINE, LORD, I THANK YOU, LORD, FOR A DIVINE, VISITATION AND MANIFESTATIONS OF THE, VISITATION AND MANIFESTATIONS OF THE, VISITATION AND MANIFESTATIONS OF THE, GLORY OF GOD ON THAT NATION IN THE NAME, GLORY OF GOD ON THAT NATION IN THE NAME, GLORY OF GOD ON THAT NATION IN THE NAME, OF JESUS. AND IT WOULD GO THROUGH, OF JESUS. AND IT WOULD GO THROUGH, OF JESUS. AND IT WOULD GO THROUGH, PAKISTAN. IT WOULD GO THROUGH OMAR., PAKISTAN. IT WOULD GO THROUGH OMAR., PAKISTAN. IT WOULD GO THROUGH OMAR., OMAR, OMAR, OMAR, OMAR, OMAR, OMAR, &gt;&gt; OMAR, I don't know if I'm saying that, &gt;&gt; OMAR, I don't know if I'm saying that, &gt;&gt; OMAR, I don't know if I'm saying that, right., right., right., &gt;&gt; Omar Omar's Omar's Minnesota., &gt;&gt; Omar Omar's Omar's Minnesota., &gt;&gt; Omar Omar's Omar's Minnesota., &gt;&gt; No, I know her. She needs to get out of, &gt;&gt; No, I know her. She needs to get out of, &gt;&gt; No, I know her. She needs to get out of, there, but I'm talking about the the the, there, but I'm talking about the the the, there, but I'm talking about the the the, the there's other nations there. I might, the there's other nations there. I might, the there's other nations there. I might, have butchered it, but I probably did., have butchered it, but I probably did., have butchered it, but I probably did., &gt;&gt; Omen., &gt;&gt; Omen., &gt;&gt; Omen., &gt;&gt; Omen., &gt;&gt; Omen., &gt;&gt; Omen., &gt;&gt; Omen., &gt;&gt; Omen., &gt;&gt; Omen., &gt;&gt; Omen. Over Jordan, over o over, &gt;&gt; Omen. Over Jordan, over o over, &gt;&gt; Omen. Over Jordan, over o over, Afghanistan, over Iraq. We call forth a, Afghanistan, over Iraq. We call forth a, Afghanistan, over Iraq. We call forth a, major revival over the area in the name, major revival over the area in the name, major revival over the area in the name, of Jesus. Father, that there'll BE THE, of Jesus. Father, that there'll BE THE, of Jesus. Father, that there'll BE THE, GREATEST HARVEST OF SOULS ALL THROUGHOUT, GREATEST HARVEST OF SOULS ALL THROUGHOUT, GREATEST HARVEST OF SOULS ALL THROUGHOUT, THE MIDDLE EAST, ALL THROUGHOUT EGYPT, THE MIDDLE EAST, ALL THROUGHOUT EGYPT, THE MIDDLE EAST, ALL THROUGHOUT EGYPT, SYRIA., SYRIA., SYRIA., I thank you LORD THAT YOU'RE TOUCHING, I thank you LORD THAT YOU'RE TOUCHING, I thank you LORD THAT YOU'RE TOUCHING, INDIA. FATHER, I thank you Lord right, INDIA. FATHER, I thank you Lord right, INDIA. FATHER, I thank you Lord right, now in the name of Jesus THAT THERE WILL, now in the name of Jesus THAT THERE WILL, now in the name of Jesus THAT THERE WILL, BE A MAJOR major harvest of souls in, BE A MAJOR major harvest of souls in, BE A MAJOR major harvest of souls in, Jesus' name., Jesus' name., Jesus' name., That the church will rise up., That the church will rise up., That the church will rise up., The church will rise up in Thailand., The church will rise up in Thailand., The church will rise up in Thailand., The church will rise up in South Korea., The church will rise up in South Korea., The church will rise up in South Korea., The church will rise up and and and and, The church will rise up and and and and, The church will rise up and and and and, even the ones that are being so, even the ones that are being so, even the ones that are being so, persecuted so heavily in North Korea., persecuted so heavily in North Korea., persecuted so heavily in North Korea., Lord, we call for our brothers and, Lord, we call for our brothers and, Lord, we call for our brothers and, sisters that are there that are not able, sisters that are there that are not able, sisters that are there that are not able, even to worship. You remember seeing, even to worship. You remember seeing, even to worship. You remember seeing, them, they weren't able to make a sound., them, they weren't able to make a sound., them, they weren't able to make a sound., They had to use their hands to praise, They had to use their hands to praise, They had to use their hands to praise, you., you., you., as they were crying out for liberation, as they were crying out for liberation, as they were crying out for liberation, and for you to set them free from Kim, and for you to set them free from Kim, and for you to set them free from Kim, Jong-un, Jong-un, Jong-un, I ask you, Father, that you would, I ask you, Father, that you would, I ask you, Father, that you would, deliver them just like you did the, deliver them just like you did the, deliver them just like you did the, people in uh Argentina, people in uh Argentina, people in uh Argentina, &gt;&gt; Venezuela, &gt;&gt; Venezuela, &gt;&gt; Venezuela, &gt;&gt; Venezuela, Venezuela, that you would deliver the people of, that you would deliver the people of, North Korea just like you did Venezuela., Father, I thank you Lord that even from, Father, I thank you Lord that even from, his sister, she's removed in Jesus name., his sister, she's removed in Jesus name., his sister, she's removed in Jesus name., And a great revival would break forth, And a great revival would break forth, And a great revival would break forth, all throughout North Korea in China, all throughout North Korea in China, all throughout North Korea in China, Father. That Father, there would be a, Father. That Father, there would be a, Father. That Father, there would be a, major harvest of souls, God, through the, major harvest of souls, God, through the, major harvest of souls, God, through the, Philippines, Lord. And I thank you that you have not, Lord. And I thank you that you have not, forgotten America., forgotten America., forgotten America., Oh, even when we have turned our back on, Oh, even when we have turned our back on, Oh, even when we have turned our back on, you and stuck our nose up towards you, you and stuck our nose up towards you, you and stuck our nose up towards you, with pride, you have given grace to us., with pride, you have given grace to us., with pride, you have given grace to us., And we thank you, Lord, for the remnant, And we thank you, Lord, for the remnant, And we thank you, Lord, for the remnant, I believe has kept this thing afloat., I believe has kept this thing afloat., I believe has kept this thing afloat., And I ask you, Father, right now to, And I ask you, Father, right now to, And I ask you, Father, right now to, shake the White House, visit him in the, shake the White House, visit him in the, shake the White House, visit him in the, midnight hour. Lord, midnight hour. Lord, midnight hour. Lord, Jesus, all you got to do is just have he, Jesus, all you got to do is just have he, Jesus, all you got to do is just have he, has a visitation. a visitation from the, has a visitation. a visitation from the, has a visitation. a visitation from the, Lord Jesus, Lord Jesus, Lord Jesus, a visitation from Gabriel, whatever. I I, a visitation from Gabriel, whatever. I I, a visitation from Gabriel, whatever. I I, mean, I I we'll take that right now. I'm, mean, I I we'll take that right now. I'm, mean, I I we'll take that right now. I'm, I just visit him in the White House in, I just visit him in the White House in, I just visit him in the White House in, his sleep and tell him what's coming, his sleep and tell him what's coming, his sleep and tell him what's coming, and that he'd be like King Hezekiah, and that he'd be like King Hezekiah, and that he'd be like King Hezekiah, that he would turn his face and you, that he would turn his face and you, that he would turn his face and you, would give him another 15 years., I thank you, Father, that that Father, I thank you, Father, that that Father, that that that you were merciful to them, that that that you were merciful to them, that that that you were merciful to them, and the Old Testament, how much more, and the Old Testament, how much more, and the Old Testament, how much more, will you do it to us for us in the New, will you do it to us for us in the New, will you do it to us for us in the New, Testament with your son's blood? How, Testament with your son's blood? How, Testament with your son's blood? How, much more, Father, as we come before you, much more, Father, as we come before you, much more, Father, as we come before you, and we pray and we ask you, Father, to, and we pray and we ask you, Father, to, and we pray and we ask you, Father, to, heal our land and that we will not see, heal our land and that we will not see, heal our land and that we will not see, our president taken out by any foreign, our president taken out by any foreign, our president taken out by any foreign, adversary., adversary., adversary., that he'll he'll he'll he he'll go home, that he'll he'll he'll he he'll go home, that he'll he'll he'll he he'll go home, at a ripe old age or by the rapture of, at a ripe old age or by the rapture of, at a ripe old age or by the rapture of, the church radically on fire and saved, the church radically on fire and saved, the church radically on fire and saved, by the by by the blood of Jesus stirred, by the by by the blood of Jesus stirred, by the by by the blood of Jesus stirred, from the top of his head to the souls, from the top of his head to the souls, from the top of his head to the souls, that we'd have that praying president, that we'd have that praying president, that we'd have that praying president, just like Kim Clement prophesied a, just like Kim Clement prophesied a, just like Kim Clement prophesied a, praying president that is Holy Ghost, praying president that is Holy Ghost, praying president that is Holy Ghost, fililled, fililled, fililled, that there will be no open doors., that there will be no open doors., that there will be no open doors., We shut the doors and we pray for him, We shut the doors and we pray for him, We shut the doors and we pray for him, and we h we thank you Lord that AS THE, and we h we thank you Lord that AS THE, and we h we thank you Lord that AS THE, CHURCH WE RISE UP IN OUR POSITION AND WE, CHURCH WE RISE UP IN OUR POSITION AND WE, CHURCH WE RISE UP IN OUR POSITION AND WE, SAY SATAN YOU WILL NOT TAKE OUR NATION., SAY SATAN YOU WILL NOT TAKE OUR NATION., SAY SATAN YOU WILL NOT TAKE OUR NATION., We apply the blood, We apply the blood, We apply the blood, in Jesus name., Father I thank you Lord as we see this, Father I thank you Lord as we see this, cold blast come through. Father, we, cold blast come through. Father, we, cold blast come through. Father, we, speak for it to speed up in the name of, speak for it to speed up in the name of, speak for it to speed up in the name of, Jesus and move faster and make the, Jesus and move faster and make the, Jesus and move faster and make the, weatherman be be wild while uh uh uh in, weatherman be be wild while uh uh uh in, weatherman be be wild while uh uh uh in, all of it going I I've never seen, all of it going I I've never seen, all of it going I I've never seen, anything like this. It was moving and, anything like this. It was moving and, anything like this. It was moving and, it's going so quick now it's like it's, it's going so quick now it's like it's, it's going so quick now it's like it's, picked up SPEED AND IT'S OUT of here and, picked up SPEED AND IT'S OUT of here and, picked up SPEED AND IT'S OUT of here and, IT WON'T CAUSE ALL THE DEVASTATION THAT, IT WON'T CAUSE ALL THE DEVASTATION THAT, IT WON'T CAUSE ALL THE DEVASTATION THAT, THEY KEEP TALKING on the news., THEY KEEP TALKING on the news., THEY KEEP TALKING on the news., Lord, you warned us back in November or, Lord, you warned us back in November or, Lord, you warned us back in November or, in October that it was coming., And Lord, we thank you Lord that you, And Lord, we thank you Lord that you, told us so far in advance., told us so far in advance., told us so far in advance., Now God, I thank you that the God of the, Now God, I thank you that the God of the, Now God, I thank you that the God of the, of the miracle, the God that parted the, of the miracle, the God that parted the, of the miracle, the God that parted the, Red Sea, Red Sea, Red Sea, the God that made peace when Jesus spoke, the God that made peace when Jesus spoke, the God that made peace when Jesus spoke, out of his mouth and said, "Peace be, out of his mouth and said, "Peace be, out of his mouth and said, "Peace be, still to the sea." Father is the same, still to the sea." Father is the same, still to the sea." Father is the same, that dwells on the inside of you and me., that dwells on the inside of you and me., that dwells on the inside of you and me., Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. And as he is, so are, today, and forever. And as he is, so are, today, and forever. And as he is, so are, we in this world. And I believe tonight, we in this world. And I believe tonight, we in this world. And I believe tonight, that WE CALL PEACE TO THE STORM AND WE, that WE CALL PEACE TO THE STORM AND WE, that WE CALL PEACE TO THE STORM AND WE, CALL IT TO DRY UP IN THE NAME OF JESUS., CALL IT TO DRY UP IN THE NAME OF JESUS., CALL IT TO DRY UP IN THE NAME OF JESUS., AND WE WILL NOT HAVE A MAJOR outages, AND WE WILL NOT HAVE A MAJOR outages, AND WE WILL NOT HAVE A MAJOR outages, from from for a thousand MILES PLUS., from from for a thousand MILES PLUS., from from for a thousand MILES PLUS., WE'LL NOT HAVE ALL THIS crippling power, WE'LL NOT HAVE ALL THIS crippling power, WE'LL NOT HAVE ALL THIS crippling power, outages with millions and millions and, outages with millions and millions and, outages with millions and millions and, millions of people out of power for, millions of people out of power for, millions of people out of power for, weeks., I pray over the Super Bowl. I pray over, I pray over the Super Bowl. I pray over, the gathering of all the people in the, the gathering of all the people in the, the gathering of all the people in the, Super Bowl. For the enemy within, for, Super Bowl. For the enemy within, for, Super Bowl. For the enemy within, for, the red dawn experience over this, the red dawn experience over this, the red dawn experience over this, nation, I pray a supernatural covering, nation, I pray a supernatural covering, nation, I pray a supernatural covering, over this nation in the name of Jesus., over this nation in the name of Jesus., over this nation in the name of Jesus., That we will have all our ICE AGENTS GET, That we will have all our ICE AGENTS GET, That we will have all our ICE AGENTS GET, ALL THESE EVILDOERS OUT OF OUR NATION in, ALL THESE EVILDOERS OUT OF OUR NATION in, ALL THESE EVILDOERS OUT OF OUR NATION in, the name OF JESUS. AND THE PERSECUTION, the name OF JESUS. AND THE PERSECUTION, the name OF JESUS. AND THE PERSECUTION, STOPS AGAINST ICE, STOPS AGAINST ICE, STOPS AGAINST ICE, now in the name of Jesus. NOW, ARE THEY, now in the name of Jesus. NOW, ARE THEY, now in the name of Jesus. NOW, ARE THEY, ALL DOING EVERYTHING RIGHT? WELL, IF YOU, ALL DOING EVERYTHING RIGHT? WELL, IF YOU, ALL DOING EVERYTHING RIGHT? WELL, IF YOU, CAME OVER here illegally, it's illegal., CAME OVER here illegally, it's illegal., CAME OVER here illegally, it's illegal., Period., Period., Period., Come over the right way. So, ARE THEY, Come over the right way. So, ARE THEY, Come over the right way. So, ARE THEY, WRONG? NO, THEY'RE JUST ENFORCING THE, WRONG? NO, THEY'RE JUST ENFORCING THE, WRONG? NO, THEY'RE JUST ENFORCING THE, LAW of the land. If you don't like the, LAW of the land. If you don't like the, LAW of the land. If you don't like the, law, change change the law then. But, law, change change the law then. But, law, change change the law then. But, they're abiding by the law., they're abiding by the law., they're abiding by the law., So they need to go, So they need to go, So they need to go, by what the law of the land says., by what the law of the land says., by what the law of the land says., They're just enforcing what they're, They're just enforcing what they're, They're just enforcing what they're, assigned to do., How hard is that?, How hard is that?, Father, I thank you, Lord, that you, Father, I thank you, Lord, that you, Father, I thank you, Lord, that you, protect our ICE agents, but I ask you to, protect our ICE agents, but I ask you to, protect our ICE agents, but I ask you to, help them to find these people of trying, help them to find these people of trying, help them to find these people of trying, to create mass destruction on our soil., I ask you father to expose and bring, I ask you father to expose and bring, them to justice in the name of Jesus., them to justice in the name of Jesus., them to justice in the name of Jesus., Every evil group of terrorists, every, Every evil group of terrorists, every, Every evil group of terrorists, every, evil group of of military uh invasion, evil group of of military uh invasion, evil group of of military uh invasion, from OTHER FOREIGN ADVERSARIES. WE CALL, from OTHER FOREIGN ADVERSARIES. WE CALL, from OTHER FOREIGN ADVERSARIES. WE CALL, THEM EXPOSED IN THE NAME OF JESUS, BY, THEM EXPOSED IN THE NAME OF JESUS, BY, THEM EXPOSED IN THE NAME OF JESUS, BY, HOMELAND SECURITY, BY OUR ICE AGENTS, BY, HOMELAND SECURITY, BY OUR ICE AGENTS, BY, HOMELAND SECURITY, BY OUR ICE AGENTS, BY, FBI, BY OUR CIA, WHOEVER IS UH FOR US., FBI, BY OUR CIA, WHOEVER IS UH FOR US., FBI, BY OUR CIA, WHOEVER IS UH FOR US., FATHER, I THANK YOU IF GOD IS FOR US, FATHER, I THANK YOU IF GOD IS FOR US, FATHER, I THANK YOU IF GOD IS FOR US, WHO CAN BE AGAINST US. AND I BELIEVE, WHO CAN BE AGAINST US. AND I BELIEVE, WHO CAN BE AGAINST US. AND I BELIEVE, THERE'S MORE THAT ARE WITH US THAN THERE, THERE'S MORE THAT ARE WITH US THAN THERE, THERE'S MORE THAT ARE WITH US THAN THERE, ARE WITH HIM., ARE WITH HIM., ARE WITH HIM., And I call an an uncovering with them, And I call an an uncovering with them, And I call an an uncovering with them, right now THROUGH CHATTER, THROUGH THAT, right now THROUGH CHATTER, THROUGH THAT, right now THROUGH CHATTER, THROUGH THAT, UNDERGROUND NETWORK OF TELEPHONE, UNDERGROUND NETWORK OF TELEPHONE, UNDERGROUND NETWORK OF TELEPHONE, COMMUNICATIONS. I CALL THEM EXPOSED. AND, COMMUNICATIONS. I CALL THEM EXPOSED. AND, COMMUNICATIONS. I CALL THEM EXPOSED. AND, EVERY SINGLE PERSON THAT IS HERE ON ILL, EVERY SINGLE PERSON THAT IS HERE ON ILL, EVERY SINGLE PERSON THAT IS HERE ON ILL, ASSIGNMENT, I CALL YOU EXPOSED IN Jesus, ASSIGNMENT, I CALL YOU EXPOSED IN Jesus, ASSIGNMENT, I CALL YOU EXPOSED IN Jesus, name. FROM MS13 TO THE MAFIA TO ALL OF, name. FROM MS13 TO THE MAFIA TO ALL OF, name. FROM MS13 TO THE MAFIA TO ALL OF, IT. UH THE THE DRUG CARTEL MAFIA, WE, IT. UH THE THE DRUG CARTEL MAFIA, WE, IT. UH THE THE DRUG CARTEL MAFIA, WE, CALL THEM EXPOSED AND BROUGHT TO JUSTICE, CALL THEM EXPOSED AND BROUGHT TO JUSTICE, CALL THEM EXPOSED AND BROUGHT TO JUSTICE, IN JESUS NAME., IN JESUS NAME., IN JESUS NAME., FATHER, THAT YOUR HAND IS ON this nation, FATHER, THAT YOUR HAND IS ON this nation, FATHER, THAT YOUR HAND IS ON this nation, AND EVERY CROOKED EVIL POLITICIAN FROM, AND EVERY CROOKED EVIL POLITICIAN FROM, AND EVERY CROOKED EVIL POLITICIAN FROM, THE DEMOCRATS TO THE REPUBLICANS. I CALL, THE DEMOCRATS TO THE REPUBLICANS. I CALL, THE DEMOCRATS TO THE REPUBLICANS. I CALL, THEM EXPOSED AND BROUGHT TO JUSTICE IN, THEM EXPOSED AND BROUGHT TO JUSTICE IN, THEM EXPOSED AND BROUGHT TO JUSTICE IN, THE NAME OF JESUS AND THE TRAFFICKING, THE NAME OF JESUS AND THE TRAFFICKING, THE NAME OF JESUS AND THE TRAFFICKING, AND THE UNDERGROUND money laundering and, AND THE UNDERGROUND money laundering and, AND THE UNDERGROUND money laundering and, all THE THINGS THAT ARE INVOLVED WITH, all THE THINGS THAT ARE INVOLVED WITH, all THE THINGS THAT ARE INVOLVED WITH, THE SOMALIA STUFF AND THE PLANES AND THE, THE SOMALIA STUFF AND THE PLANES AND THE, THE SOMALIA STUFF AND THE PLANES AND THE, TRAINS AND THE AUTOMOBILES, THE BIG, TRAINS AND THE AUTOMOBILES, THE BIG, TRAINS AND THE AUTOMOBILES, THE BIG, MANSIONS, ALL THIS CORRUPT MONEY WITH, MANSIONS, ALL THIS CORRUPT MONEY WITH, MANSIONS, ALL THIS CORRUPT MONEY WITH, BILLIONS OF DOLLARS. I CALL IT uh, BILLIONS OF DOLLARS. I CALL IT uh, BILLIONS OF DOLLARS. I CALL IT uh, uncovered, uncovered, uncovered, in the name of JESUS AND THE POLITICAL, in the name of JESUS AND THE POLITICAL, in the name of JESUS AND THE POLITICAL, THEATER TO STOP., We don't have time for this., We don't have time for this., We call the exposing of in in, We call the exposing of in in, We call the exposing of in in, California, California, California, Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Nevada., Nevada., There were so many others the LORD, There were so many others the LORD, There were so many others the LORD, BROUGHT UP BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS AREA., BROUGHT UP BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS AREA., BROUGHT UP BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS AREA., Thank you, Lord, that Omar is finding, Thank you, Lord, that Omar is finding, Thank you, Lord, that Omar is finding, another job., another job., another job., The one that's over the Senate in the in, The one that's over the Senate in the in, The one that's over the Senate in the in, the in the in in Minnesota and that the, the in the in in Minnesota and that the, the in the in in Minnesota and that the, governor is finding a new job. He's out, governor is finding a new job. He's out, governor is finding a new job. He's out, of here. ALL THE CORRUPTION IS BEING, of here. ALL THE CORRUPTION IS BEING, of here. ALL THE CORRUPTION IS BEING, UNCOVERED IN THE NAME of Jesus and that, UNCOVERED IN THE NAME of Jesus and that, UNCOVERED IN THE NAME of Jesus and that, Pam BUNDY GETS THIS DONE QUICK AND IT, Pam BUNDY GETS THIS DONE QUICK AND IT, Pam BUNDY GETS THIS DONE QUICK AND IT, DOESN'T TAKE a long time., DOESN'T TAKE a long time., DOESN'T TAKE a long time., It's just not just drawn out and drawn, It's just not just drawn out and drawn, It's just not just drawn out and drawn, out and drawn out and drawn out. FATHER, out and drawn out and drawn out. FATHER, out and drawn out and drawn out. FATHER, WE ASK FOR A QUICK WORK, QUICK JUSTICE, WE ASK FOR A QUICK WORK, QUICK JUSTICE, WE ASK FOR A QUICK WORK, QUICK JUSTICE, QUICK WORK, AND THAT THE EVIL PEOPLE, QUICK WORK, AND THAT THE EVIL PEOPLE, QUICK WORK, AND THAT THE EVIL PEOPLE, DOING BAD THINGS WOULD BE REMOVE, DOING BAD THINGS WOULD BE REMOVE, DOING BAD THINGS WOULD BE REMOVE, REMOVED, and exposed, AND WE WOULD SEE, REMOVED, and exposed, AND WE WOULD SEE, REMOVED, and exposed, AND WE WOULD SEE, ALL THE CORRUPTION IN THIS NATION FOR, ALL THE CORRUPTION IN THIS NATION FOR, ALL THE CORRUPTION IN THIS NATION FOR, WHAT IT IS, AND WE GET IT SORTED OUT, WHAT IT IS, AND WE GET IT SORTED OUT, WHAT IT IS, AND WE GET IT SORTED OUT, AND WE DRAIN THE SWAMP., AND WE DRAIN THE SWAMP., AND WE DRAIN THE SWAMP., FATHER, I THANK YOU FOR PEOPLE THAT HAVE, FATHER, I THANK YOU FOR PEOPLE THAT HAVE, FATHER, I THANK YOU FOR PEOPLE THAT HAVE, A BACKBONE LIKE A CROWBAR RISING UP AND, A BACKBONE LIKE A CROWBAR RISING UP AND, A BACKBONE LIKE A CROWBAR RISING UP AND, and running for office and our Senate, and running for office and our Senate, and running for office and our Senate, and our House and our governors and our, and our House and our governors and our, and our House and our governors and our, mayors and our uh UH SHERIFF'S, mayors and our uh UH SHERIFF'S, mayors and our uh UH SHERIFF'S, DEPARTMENTS. THE PEOPLE WITH INTEGRITY, DEPARTMENTS. THE PEOPLE WITH INTEGRITY, DEPARTMENTS. THE PEOPLE WITH INTEGRITY, PEOPLE WITH WITH GOD-FEARING UH WHAT, PEOPLE WITH WITH GOD-FEARING UH WHAT, PEOPLE WITH WITH GOD-FEARING UH WHAT, WHAT WE WOULD CALL CHRISTIANS WOULD BE, WHAT WE WOULD CALL CHRISTIANS WOULD BE, WHAT WE WOULD CALL CHRISTIANS WOULD BE, IN THERE SAYING NOT NOT NOT LUKEWARM, IN THERE SAYING NOT NOT NOT LUKEWARM, IN THERE SAYING NOT NOT NOT LUKEWARM, CHRISTIANS ON FIRE FOR GOD CHRISTIANS., CHRISTIANS ON FIRE FOR GOD CHRISTIANS., CHRISTIANS ON FIRE FOR GOD CHRISTIANS., THERE'S A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN being a, THERE'S A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN being a, THERE'S A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN being a, Christian saying I'm a Christian and and, Christian saying I'm a Christian and and, Christian saying I'm a Christian and and, being sister clipboard. I'M TALKING, being sister clipboard. I'M TALKING, being sister clipboard. I'M TALKING, ABOUT AN ON FIRE FOR GOD Christians in, ABOUT AN ON FIRE FOR GOD Christians in, ABOUT AN ON FIRE FOR GOD Christians in, political positions, political positions, political positions, and father and JUDGES AND WE CALL THEM, and father and JUDGES AND WE CALL THEM, and father and JUDGES AND WE CALL THEM, in right now AND WE THANK YOU Lord that, in right now AND WE THANK YOU Lord that, in right now AND WE THANK YOU Lord that, people you would speak to their hearts, people you would speak to their hearts, people you would speak to their hearts, even right now and you say run for, even right now and you say run for, even right now and you say run for, office run. You can do this and I'll, office run. You can do this and I'll, office run. You can do this and I'll, back you., back you., back you., I thank you father. It's not about being, I thank you father. It's not about being, I thank you father. It's not about being, mega. It's about being like Jesus., And we thank you Lord, Father, for godly, And we thank you Lord, Father, for godly, principles and godly theology and godly, principles and godly theology and godly, principles and godly theology and godly, thinking in Jesus name., thinking in Jesus name., thinking in Jesus name., We believe, Father, that you're not done, We believe, Father, that you're not done, We believe, Father, that you're not done, with America yet., with America yet., with America yet., We believe that you're not done with, We believe that you're not done with, We believe that you're not done with, America yet. We believe, Father, that, America yet. We believe, Father, that, America yet. We believe, Father, that, Father, there's a shaking coming to our, Father, there's a shaking coming to our, Father, there's a shaking coming to our, churches and you're cleaning up the, churches and you're cleaning up the, churches and you're cleaning up the, house. and 1 Corinthians 5:5 will come, house. and 1 Corinthians 5:5 will come, house. and 1 Corinthians 5:5 will come, to full uh fruition in in 2026 and 2027, to full uh fruition in in 2026 and 2027, to full uh fruition in in 2026 and 2027, and a great manifestation of the glory, and a great manifestation of the glory, and a great manifestation of the glory, of God's coming on this nation from sea, of God's coming on this nation from sea, of God's coming on this nation from sea, to shining sea from the Gulf to Canada, to shining sea from the Gulf to Canada, to shining sea from the Gulf to Canada, and I call forth a major move of God all, and I call forth a major move of God all, and I call forth a major move of God all, throughout Canada and all throughout, throughout Canada and all throughout, throughout Canada and all throughout, Mexico and Father I thank you Lord when, Mexico and Father I thank you Lord when, Mexico and Father I thank you Lord when, the the gospel is preached throughout, the the gospel is preached throughout, the the gospel is preached throughout, whole world then the end will come, as a sign, as a sign, and we believe it Father, that tonight, and we believe it Father, that tonight, and we believe it Father, that tonight, we're seeing a turnaround. That tonight, we're seeing a turnaround. That tonight, we're seeing a turnaround. That tonight, the boat the boat is turning around. And, the boat the boat is turning around. And, the boat the boat is turning around. And, sometimes it takes a little bit to turn, sometimes it takes a little bit to turn, sometimes it takes a little bit to turn, a a big massive uh uh uh cruise ship., a a big massive uh uh uh cruise ship., a a big massive uh uh uh cruise ship., But we believe, Father, that it's, But we believe, Father, that it's, But we believe, Father, that it's, turning tonight. That tonight marks the, turning tonight. That tonight marks the, turning tonight. That tonight marks the, day, you mark it on your calendar right, day, you mark it on your calendar right, day, you mark it on your calendar right, now, that today is the day of a divine, now, that today is the day of a divine, now, that today is the day of a divine, turnaround, of divine favor, of divine, turnaround, of divine favor, of divine, turnaround, of divine favor, of divine, restitution., restitution., restitution., I believe that Jesus I Christ is is and, I believe that Jesus I Christ is is and, I believe that Jesus I Christ is is and, and the angels, holy angels are all, and the angels, holy angels are all, and the angels, holy angels are all, working on our behalf right now as we, working on our behalf right now as we, working on our behalf right now as we, speak. They're working. It's all, speak. They're working. It's all, speak. They're working. It's all, happening right now, happening right now, happening right now, and things are turning around. The Holy, and things are turning around. The Holy, and things are turning around. The Holy, Spirit's working on the hearts of the, Spirit's working on the hearts of the, Spirit's working on the hearts of the, evil. He's pricking the hearts of the, evil. He's pricking the hearts of the, evil. He's pricking the hearts of the, evil right now. Like it says in Acts, evil right now. Like it says in Acts, evil right now. Like it says in Acts, chapter 2, he's put pricking the hearts of the, he's put pricking the hearts of the, wicked. He's pricking the hearts of the, wicked. He's pricking the hearts of the, wicked. He's pricking the hearts of the, wicked, softening their hearts. It might, wicked, softening their hearts. It might, wicked, softening their hearts. It might, be Acts chapter 4., &gt;&gt; He's pricking the hearts of the wicked, &gt;&gt; He's pricking the hearts of the wicked, softening them right now., softening them right now., softening them right now., And I believe, Father, right now that, And I believe, Father, right now that, And I believe, Father, right now that, there's a divine turnaround., I believe it, Lord., I believe it, Lord., Everybody else believe it, too?, I pray over Australia right now in the, I pray over Australia right now in the, name of Jesus that Father that there's, name of Jesus that Father that there's, name of Jesus that Father that there's, rain. We call forth rain from Sydney all, rain. We call forth rain from Sydney all, rain. We call forth rain from Sydney all, the way across. I call forth rain in the, the way across. I call forth rain in the, the way across. I call forth rain in the, name of Jesus. And I SAY RAIN COME., name of Jesus. And I SAY RAIN COME., name of Jesus. And I SAY RAIN COME., DROUGHT be broken. And a major Holy, DROUGHT be broken. And a major Holy, DROUGHT be broken. And a major Holy, Ghost rain is coming over Australia in, Ghost rain is coming over Australia in, Ghost rain is coming over Australia in, the NAME OF JESUS. WE CALL THAT RAIN TO, the NAME OF JESUS. WE CALL THAT RAIN TO, the NAME OF JESUS. WE CALL THAT RAIN TO, COME FORTH. ACTS 2 237. He's pricking, COME FORTH. ACTS 2 237. He's pricking, COME FORTH. ACTS 2 237. He's pricking, the hearts. Acts 2:37. Thank you, the hearts. Acts 2:37. Thank you, the hearts. Acts 2:37. Thank you, Braden., Braden., Braden., Acts 2:37. We believe that, Acts 2:37. We believe that, Acts 2:37. We believe that, no one's heart is too hardened., no one's heart is too hardened., no one's heart is too hardened., You say, "Well, he's too corrupt. He's, You say, "Well, he's too corrupt. He's, You say, "Well, he's too corrupt. He's, too hard. He's never return." No, no, too hard. He's never return." No, no, too hard. He's never return." No, no, no, no, no. I believe Acts 2:37, he can prick the hardest of hearts and, he can prick the hardest of hearts and, make them pliable., We call forth revival over Australia, We call forth revival over Australia, right now in the name of Jesus from the, right now in the name of Jesus from the, right now in the name of Jesus from the, land down under., land down under., land down under., We call forth that major revival of, We call forth that major revival of, We call forth that major revival of, souls. We call forth the churches or, souls. We call forth the churches or, souls. We call forth the churches or, leadership to rise up in the name of, leadership to rise up in the name of, leadership to rise up in the name of, Jesus. We call a fresh clean start, a, Jesus. We call a fresh clean start, a, Jesus. We call a fresh clean start, a, fresh revival, fresh water., fresh revival, fresh water., fresh revival, fresh water., Father, I thank you Lord when you showed, Father, I thank you Lord when you showed, Father, I thank you Lord when you showed, me that drought, you said speak to the, me that drought, you said speak to the, me that drought, you said speak to the, rain. Speak to THE TEMPERATURE. WE CALL, rain. Speak to THE TEMPERATURE. WE CALL, rain. Speak to THE TEMPERATURE. WE CALL, IT RAIN IN JESUS NAME., IT RAIN IN JESUS NAME., IT RAIN IN JESUS NAME., I hear the sound of an abundance of, I hear the sound of an abundance of, I hear the sound of an abundance of, rain., rain., rain., I HEAR THE SOUND OF AN ABUNDANCE OF RAIN, I HEAR THE SOUND OF AN ABUNDANCE OF RAIN, I HEAR THE SOUND OF AN ABUNDANCE OF RAIN, over Australia., over Australia., over Australia., I hear the sound of an abundance of rain, I hear the sound of an abundance of rain, I hear the sound of an abundance of rain, over Australia tonight., over Australia tonight., over Australia tonight., In the name of Jesus, WE CALL IN LOW PRESSURE systems to move, WE CALL IN LOW PRESSURE systems to move, across that great land. And we thank, across that great land. And we thank, across that great land. And we thank, you, Lord, that that there's major rain., you, Lord, that that there's major rain., you, Lord, that that there's major rain., Major rain. We're not asking for, Major rain. We're not asking for, Major rain. We're not asking for, destruction, but we're asking, Father, destruction, but we're asking, Father, destruction, but we're asking, Father, for their lakes and their streams and, for their lakes and their streams and, for their lakes and their streams and, their ponds and their and their and, their ponds and their and their and, their ponds and their and their and, their their creeks will be filled for, their their creeks will be filled for, their their creeks will be filled for, the kangaroos to drink and the koala, the kangaroos to drink and the koala, the kangaroos to drink and the koala, bears to have fun., We believe it, Lord. And that, Father, We believe it, Lord. And that, Father, that the people will rejoice for the, that the people will rejoice for the, that the people will rejoice for the, rain. For not only a reign of the, rain. For not only a reign of the, rain. For not only a reign of the, natural, but a reign of the spiritual, natural, but a reign of the spiritual, natural, but a reign of the spiritual, and the former and the latter rain will, and the former and the latter rain will, and the former and the latter rain will, come together, and another, and a, come together, and another, and a, come together, and another, and a, greater wave of your glory will be seen, greater wave of your glory will be seen, greater wave of your glory will be seen, all around Australia, and great new, all around Australia, and great new, all around Australia, and great new, worship will come up out of it, worship will come up out of it, worship will come up out of it, in the name of Jesus., as you're in your house, as you're in your house, over over the next day or so if you're, over over the next day or so if you're, over over the next day or so if you're, snowed in and you can't get out, spend, snowed in and you can't get out, spend, snowed in and you can't get out, spend, that time not just playing on social, that time not just playing on social, that time not just playing on social, media, but give that time to Jesus., media, but give that time to Jesus., media, but give that time to Jesus., Give him extra time., Give him extra time., Give him extra time., Hey, I miss you. It's a time. So, it's, Hey, I miss you. It's a time. So, it's, Hey, I miss you. It's a time. So, it's, just a timeout., just a timeout., just a timeout., Spend times with your kids playing some, Spend times with your kids playing some, Spend times with your kids playing some, games., games., games., Play some board games. Play a card game., Play some board games. Play a card game., Play some board games. Play a card game., Do something fun with your kids. Love on, Do something fun with your kids. Love on, Do something fun with your kids. Love on, them., them., them., Times are short. Times are precious is, Times are short. Times are precious is, Times are short. Times are precious is, when their kids are growing up fast. As, when their kids are growing up fast. As, when their kids are growing up fast. As, I told my it's fun just to It's like I, I told my it's fun just to It's like I, I told my it's fun just to It's like I, was making stew in there tonight with, was making stew in there tonight with, was making stew in there tonight with, Paisley and just in there cooking and, Paisley and just in there cooking and, Paisley and just in there cooking and, talking. Those are precious times., Making a big pot of stew. making a big, Making a big pot of stew. making a big, pot of some cornbread or whatever, pot of some cornbread or whatever, pot of some cornbread or whatever, talking, talking, talking, you can't go outside, stay in there and, you can't go outside, stay in there and, you can't go outside, stay in there and, and and do something fun with your kids., Spend time with the Lord., Spend time with the Lord., He wants so desperately to have, He wants so desperately to have, He wants so desperately to have, relationship with you., relationship with you., relationship with you., You say, "Oh, I want relationship with, You say, "Oh, I want relationship with, You say, "Oh, I want relationship with, him." No, no. He wants one with you even, him." No, no. He wants one with you even, him." No, no. He wants one with you even, more, if you just get yourself out of the way, if you just get yourself out of the way, and sit at his feet and say, "Here I am., and sit at his feet and say, "Here I am., and sit at his feet and say, "Here I am., I want to know you., I want to know you., I want to know you., I ask you to become real to me., I ask you to become real to me., I ask you to become real to me., I can tell you whenever the presence on, I can tell you whenever the presence on, I can tell you whenever the presence on, Sunday filled our house, even with such, Sunday filled our house, even with such, Sunday filled our house, even with such, a hard word that I had to give and talk, a hard word that I had to give and talk, a hard word that I had to give and talk, about, the glory of the Lord will change you., the glory of the Lord will change you., It's that one touch, but being being filled with the Holy, but being being filled with the Holy, Spirit like it was I he he had his the, Spirit like it was I he he had his the, Spirit like it was I he he had his the, same same way he always looked. He, same same way he always looked. He, same same way he always looked. He, looked so nice with his his robe on this, looked so nice with his his robe on this, looked so nice with his his robe on this, time. And I look at him and I he the, time. And I look at him and I he the, time. And I look at him and I he the, glory of the Lord all over the way he, glory of the Lord all over the way he, glory of the Lord all over the way he, shines., You shine, You shine, like a bright morning star., like a bright morning star., like a bright morning star., Jesus, what a wonder you are. That's somebody, what a wonder you are. That's somebody, who seen him., what a wonder you are., what a wonder you are., You are so gentle, You are so gentle, You are so gentle, so pure, and so kind., You shine, You shine, like a bright morning star., like a bright morning star., like a bright morning star., Jesus, what a wonder you are., what a wonder you are., Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, you're the sweetest name of all., you're the sweetest name of all., you're the sweetest name of all., Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, you always hear me when I call., you always hear me when I call., you always hear me when I call., Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, you lift me up each time I fall. You're, you lift me up each time I fall. You're, you lift me up each time I fall. You're, the sweetest, the sweetest, the sweetest, sweetest name of all., you're the sweetest name of all., you're the sweetest name of all., Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, you always hear me when I call., you always hear me when I call., you always hear me when I call., Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, you lift me up each time I fall. You're, you lift me up each time I fall. You're, you lift me up each time I fall. You're, the sweetest, the sweetest, the sweetest, sweetest name of all., And that's the way it is. The angels, And that's the way it is. The angels, look like they're bodyguards when I know, look like they're bodyguards when I know, look like they're bodyguards when I know, Jesus don't need no bodyguards, Jesus don't need no bodyguards, Jesus don't need no bodyguards, but there was three. One was behind him, but there was three. One was behind him, but there was three. One was behind him, one was on the side of him, and one was, one was on the side of him, and one was, one was on the side of him, and one was, on the other. And they came in together., on the other. And they came in together., on the other. And they came in together., It's almost like his entourage. It was, It's almost like his entourage. It was, It's almost like his entourage. It was, cool., cool., cool., Like I'm walking in, man. I got dropped, Like I'm walking in, man. I got dropped, Like I'm walking in, man. I got dropped, the mic. I'm here. I'm Jesus. It was, the mic. I'm here. I'm Jesus. It was, the mic. I'm here. I'm Jesus. It was, cool. It really was. Not that he he he's, cool. It really was. Not that he he he's, cool. It really was. Not that he he he's, always about humility. I've never seen, always about humility. I've never seen, always about humility. I've never seen, him be arrogant. Nothing. Ever. Of, him be arrogant. Nothing. Ever. Of, him be arrogant. Nothing. Ever. Of, course. Every single time he presents, course. Every single time he presents, course. Every single time he presents, himself as as as so so uh so so, himself as as as so so uh so so, himself as as as so so uh so so, beautiful beyond description., beautiful beyond description., beautiful beyond description., But it was cool because the angels that, But it was cool because the angels that, But it was cool because the angels that, came in with him and I was like it it it, came in with him and I was like it it it, came in with him and I was like it it it, it shook me, it shook me, it shook me, as I I right here. Right here came, as I I right here. Right here came, as I I right here. Right here came, through a portal right here., through a portal right here., through a portal right here., I I was doing a video for you, and I was praying and he said, "I have a, and I was praying and he said, "I have a, word for you., I must tell you what's coming., I must tell you what's coming., I said why?, I said why?, I said why?, Why?, Why?, Why?, Tell me why. Why? Why happened? What, Tell me why. Why? Why happened? What, Tell me why. Why? Why happened? What, happened? Why is this? Why? What's, happened? Why is this? Why? What's, happened? Why is this? Why? What's, changed?, changed?, changed?, Pride has set in., They're not praying for him enough., They're not praying for him enough., That's why I ask you, are you praying, That's why I ask you, are you praying, That's why I ask you, are you praying, for our president today?, for our president today?, for our president today?, Oh, God have mercy., I believe we could have changed things, I believe we could have changed things, tonight. Do you?, tonight. Do you?, tonight. Do you?, There's enough of us here. I believe we, There's enough of us here. I believe we, There's enough of us here. I believe we, could have changed some things., I don't believe it's it meant for, I don't believe it's it meant for, anybody to go home that way., I believe that the word says he does, I believe that the word says he does, nothing in this earth earth unless he, nothing in this earth earth unless he, nothing in this earth earth unless he, reveals it to the prophetic voices first, reveals it to the prophetic voices first, reveals it to the prophetic voices first, the watchman's, the watchman's, the watchman's, I don't go around you're a prophet, I don't go around you're a prophet, I don't go around you're a prophet, you're a prophet all this stuff that, you're a prophet all this stuff that, you're a prophet all this stuff that, people I I just say I'm a watchman I I I, people I I just say I'm a watchman I I I, people I I just say I'm a watchman I I I, yield to the anointing of prophetic if, yield to the anointing of prophetic if, yield to the anointing of prophetic if, he wants to say something then father by, he wants to say something then father by, he wants to say something then father by, all means say it if not I'm just as, all means say it if not I'm just as, all means say it if not I'm just as, human as everybody else I I try my best, human as everybody else I I try my best, human as everybody else I I try my best, y'all All that's why I keep telling you, y'all All that's why I keep telling you, y'all All that's why I keep telling you, I get so tired of all the the arrogance, I get so tired of all the the arrogance, I get so tired of all the the arrogance, in the church., in the church., in the church., Humble yourself underneath the mighty, Humble yourself underneath the mighty, Humble yourself underneath the mighty, hand of God., hand of God., hand of God., And we thank you, Lord. Father, for you, And we thank you, Lord. Father, for you, And we thank you, Lord. Father, for you, can use anybody. If you can use Brendan, can use anybody. If you can use Brendan, can use anybody. If you can use Brendan, Biggs, you can use anybody. And I truly, Biggs, you can use anybody. And I truly, Biggs, you can use anybody. And I truly, mean that with all my heart. If you saw, mean that with all my heart. If you saw, mean that with all my heart. If you saw, all my flaws, you say, "How in the world, all my flaws, you say, "How in the world, all my flaws, you say, "How in the world, is God using him?" Because that's why I, is God using him?" Because that's why I, is God using him?" Because that's why I, ask about me all the time by his grace., Father, we just thank you. Thank you. We, Father, we just thank you. Thank you. We, thank you, Lord. We thank you, Lord., thank you, Lord. We thank you, Lord., thank you, Lord. We thank you, Lord., We rejoice in all. We rejoice. We, We rejoice in all. We rejoice. We, We rejoice in all. We rejoice. We, rejoice in the Lord always. And again I, rejoice in the Lord always. And again I, rejoice in the Lord always. And again I, say rejoice, say rejoice, say rejoice, and we believe father that things are, and we believe father that things are, and we believe father that things are, turning around tonight that father the, turning around tonight that father the, turning around tonight that father the, expiration date to our need was today, for the breakthrough is here and I, for the breakthrough is here and I, believe that father concerning health, believe that father concerning health, believe that father concerning health, concerning finances concerning for uh uh, concerning finances concerning for uh uh, concerning finances concerning for uh uh, you might be bound by some kind of, you might be bound by some kind of, you might be bound by some kind of, demonic spirit of of addiction. I, demonic spirit of of addiction. I, demonic spirit of of addiction. I, believe that tonight's your night for, believe that tonight's your night for, believe that tonight's your night for, your breakthrough. That you don't have, your breakthrough. That you don't have, your breakthrough. That you don't have, to be walking in addiction to to uh, to be walking in addiction to to uh, to be walking in addiction to to uh, alcohol or drugs or uh nicotine, alcohol or drugs or uh nicotine, alcohol or drugs or uh nicotine, pornography, pornography, pornography, um lust, um lust, um lust, all the things that the devil tries to, all the things that the devil tries to, all the things that the devil tries to, use, the gold, the glory, and the girls., Father, I thank you, Lord, that they're, Father, I thank you, Lord, that they're, free., free., free., The father for whom the son has set free, The father for whom the son has set free, The father for whom the son has set free, is free indeed. And I pray over every, is free indeed. And I pray over every, is free indeed. And I pray over every, single one of them tonight that they, single one of them tonight that they, single one of them tonight that they, walk in divine freedom. That freedom, walk in divine freedom. That freedom, walk in divine freedom. That freedom, that peace that passes all, that peace that passes all, that peace that passes all, understanding, the joy unspeakable and, understanding, the joy unspeakable and, understanding, the joy unspeakable and, full of glory. That father, this is a, full of glory. That father, this is a, full of glory. That father, this is a, time like never before. That we, the, time like never before. That we, the, time like never before. That we, the, church, rise up like the Tommy Hicks, church, rise up like the Tommy Hicks, church, rise up like the Tommy Hicks, vision and become that giant. that it's, vision and become that giant. that it's, vision and become that giant. that it's, not the Pentecostals against the, not the Pentecostals against the, not the Pentecostals against the, Baptists, the Baptist against the, Baptists, the Baptist against the, Baptists, the Baptist against the, Catholics, the Catholics against the, Catholics, the Catholics against the, Catholics, the Catholics against the, Methodist, or the Church of Christ., Methodist, or the Church of Christ., Methodist, or the Church of Christ., Father, that we become one body, Father, that we become one body, Father, that we become one body, functioning as one with one voice, one, functioning as one with one voice, one, functioning as one with one voice, one, sound coming together, all proclaiming, sound coming together, all proclaiming, sound coming together, all proclaiming, that Jesus Christ is coming. That we're, that Jesus Christ is coming. That we're, that Jesus Christ is coming. That we're, not going against this religion or that, not going against this religion or that, not going against this religion or that, religion. But, Father, that we are all, religion. But, Father, that we are all, religion. But, Father, that we are all, onely joined together as one body moving, onely joined together as one body moving, onely joined together as one body moving, as a body, as that great mighty army., as a body, as that great mighty army., as a body, as that great mighty army., That he didn't say, "Well, I'm only, That he didn't say, "Well, I'm only, That he didn't say, "Well, I'm only, going to use the charismatics in these, going to use the charismatics in these, going to use the charismatics in these, last days." If you notice, there seem to, last days." If you notice, there seem to, last days." If you notice, there seem to, be the ones that messing up a lot right, be the ones that messing up a lot right, be the ones that messing up a lot right, now. So, we we pray for the body to come, now. So, we we pray for the body to come, now. So, we we pray for the body to come, together, together, together, and join up and become strong., and join up and become strong., and join up and become strong., And we lift our brothers and sisters up, And we lift our brothers and sisters up, And we lift our brothers and sisters up, and we say, "Listen, we can make it, and we say, "Listen, we can make it, and we say, "Listen, we can make it, through this.", through this.", through this.", I believe, Father, that that's the kind, I believe, Father, that that's the kind, I believe, Father, that that's the kind, of church we have today as a church that, of church we have today as a church that, of church we have today as a church that, has boldness and a backbone like a, has boldness and a backbone like a, has boldness and a backbone like a, crowbar that says, "I will not bow and I, crowbar that says, "I will not bow and I, crowbar that says, "I will not bow and I, will not burn., will not burn., will not burn., And you can turn up that furnace as hot, And you can turn up that furnace as hot, And you can turn up that furnace as hot, as you want, BUT I'M STILL NOT GOING TO, as you want, BUT I'M STILL NOT GOING TO, as you want, BUT I'M STILL NOT GOING TO, BOW AND I WILL NOT BURN BECAUSE MY GOD, BOW AND I WILL NOT BURN BECAUSE MY GOD, BOW AND I WILL NOT BURN BECAUSE MY GOD, WILL deliver me from the flames of the, WILL deliver me from the flames of the, WILL deliver me from the flames of the, fire., fire., fire., You want to throw me in THE LION'S DEN, You want to throw me in THE LION'S DEN, You want to throw me in THE LION'S DEN, MY GOD WILL SHUT THE MOUTH, the mouth of, MY GOD WILL SHUT THE MOUTH, the mouth of, MY GOD WILL SHUT THE MOUTH, the mouth of, the lion, and he's going to MAKE IT, the lion, and he's going to MAKE IT, the lion, and he's going to MAKE IT, WHERE THEY CAN'T EAT ME., WHERE THEY CAN'T EAT ME., WHERE THEY CAN'T EAT ME., You either believe it or you don't. I, You either believe it or you don't. I, You either believe it or you don't. I, say, "Father, give me boldness like, say, "Father, give me boldness like, say, "Father, give me boldness like, Daniel. and give me boldness like, Daniel. and give me boldness like, Daniel. and give me boldness like, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abedneo to say, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abedneo to say, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abedneo to say, "Father, "Father, "Father, there are more that are with us than, there are more that are with us than, there are more that are with us than, there are with them., there are with them., there are with them., I'm not scared of the armies of the the, I'm not scared of the armies of the the, I'm not scared of the armies of the the, devil or what'sever going out on THEM, devil or what'sever going out on THEM, devil or what'sever going out on THEM, HILLSIDE. THERE'S MORE THAT ARE WITH US, HILLSIDE. THERE'S MORE THAT ARE WITH US, HILLSIDE. THERE'S MORE THAT ARE WITH US, THAN there are with them, THAN there are with them, THAN there are with them, in these last days., in these last days., in these last days., And you're rising. You're we are rising, And you're rising. You're we are rising, And you're rising. You're we are rising, up and we're taking our dominion, up and we're taking our dominion, up and we're taking our dominion, authority tonight. And I believe that, authority tonight. And I believe that, authority tonight. And I believe that, our president is covered in Jesus name, our president is covered in Jesus name, our president is covered in Jesus name, with prayer. We can pray in the spirit, with prayer. We can pray in the spirit, with prayer. We can pray in the spirit, for about 10 minutes if you want or, for about 10 minutes if you want or, for about 10 minutes if you want or, because I try to make it all English so, because I try to make it all English so, because I try to make it all English so, you all hear because I want to push but, you all hear because I want to push but, you all hear because I want to push but, we can pray in uh and so you could grab, we can pray in uh and so you could grab, we can pray in uh and so you could grab, a hold of it., a hold of it., a hold of it., Attach your fifth mine., Attach your fifth mine., Attach your fifth mine., You agree?, You agree?, You agree?, Touching anything. We're touching, Touching anything. We're touching, Touching anything. We're touching, everything. President Trump said Melania, everything. President Trump said Melania, everything. President Trump said Melania, his marriage is strong. I saw a storm, his marriage is strong. I saw a storm, his marriage is strong. I saw a storm, coming for their marriage and the Lord, coming for their marriage and the Lord, coming for their marriage and the Lord, said, "Pray for their marriage., Pray for their marriage.", Pray for their marriage.", So we that's what we continue to pray., So we that's what we continue to pray., So we that's what we continue to pray., Now do I know when that when that was? I, Now do I know when that when that was? I, Now do I know when that when that was? I, didn't know what it was when, didn't know what it was when, didn't know what it was when, Pennsylvania., Pennsylvania., Pennsylvania., I I saw was a man in the ear and all the, I I saw was a man in the ear and all the, I I saw was a man in the ear and all the, things I saw. I didn't know when it was, things I saw. I didn't know when it was, things I saw. I didn't know when it was, going to happen. But I saw a man this, going to happen. But I saw a man this, going to happen. But I saw a man this, time in black, time in black, time in black, and it was a totally different scenario, and it was a totally different scenario, and it was a totally different scenario, this time., this time., this time., So, do we turn it? Yes, I believe it., So, do we turn it? Yes, I believe it., So, do we turn it? Yes, I believe it., Do you believe it? Do you believe that?, Do you believe it? Do you believe that?, Do you believe it? Do you believe that?, Yes. Be a believing believer with me., Yes. Be a believing believer with me., Yes. Be a believing believer with me., So, that's what we're going to see., How was that? I I d I dumped them myself, How was that? I I d I dumped them myself, out., It's all Holy Ghost. I can tell you, It's all Holy Ghost. I can tell you, that. But it's like after you're over, that. But it's like after you're over, that. But it's like after you're over, and I did it all, I said, "My goodness, and I did it all, I said, "My goodness, and I did it all, I said, "My goodness, son. I I I I told I do I feel what the, son. I I I I told I do I feel what the, son. I I I I told I do I feel what the, Lord told me to do today., Jesus, Jesus, is coming, is coming, is coming, soon., soon., soon., Morning or night or noon, Morning or night or noon, Morning or night or noon, many will meet their doom. Trumpets will, many will meet their doom. Trumpets will, many will meet their doom. Trumpets will, surely, surely, surely, sound. All of the dead shall rise., sound. All of the dead shall rise., sound. All of the dead shall rise., Righteous meet in the sky. Going where, Righteous meet in the sky. Going where, Righteous meet in the sky. Going where, no one dies. Heaven we're bound., no one dies. Heaven we're bound., no one dies. Heaven we're bound., I'll try to hit this note. I hit I, I'll try to hit this note. I hit I, I'll try to hit this note. I hit I, already started out too high. And Jesus, already started out too high. And Jesus, already started out too high. And Jesus, is coming, is coming, is coming, soon. Morning or night or noon. Many, soon. Morning or night or noon. Many, soon. Morning or night or noon. Many, will meet their doom. Trumpets will, will meet their doom. Trumpets will, will meet their doom. Trumpets will, surely, surely, surely, sound. All of the That's hard. It's too, sound. All of the That's hard. It's too, sound. All of the That's hard. It's too, high. My voice IS CRACKING TODAY. DEAD, high. My voice IS CRACKING TODAY. DEAD, high. My voice IS CRACKING TODAY. DEAD, SHALL RISE. Righteous me in the sky, SHALL RISE. Righteous me in the sky, SHALL RISE. Righteous me in the sky, going where no one dies. Heaven we're, going where no one dies. Heaven we're, going where no one dies. Heaven we're, bound., bound., bound., Thank you, Lord., Thank you, Lord., Thank you, Lord., Hallelujah. Well, if you're here tonight, Hallelujah. Well, if you're here tonight, Hallelujah. Well, if you're here tonight, and you've never asked Jesus Christ to, and you've never asked Jesus Christ to, and you've never asked Jesus Christ to, be your Lord and personal Savior, be your Lord and personal Savior, be your Lord and personal Savior, I believe you're here not by by, I believe you're here not by by, I believe you're here not by by, accident, but by by a divine, accident, but by by a divine, accident, but by by a divine, appointment. And if you've never asked, appointment. And if you've never asked, appointment. And if you've never asked, him to be your Lord and personal savior, him to be your Lord and personal savior, him to be your Lord and personal savior, and you're and you're here tonight and, and you're and you're here tonight and, and you're and you're here tonight and, you would you want to and you want to, you would you want to and you want to, you would you want to and you want to, invite Jesus in, tonight's your night. I, invite Jesus in, tonight's your night. I, invite Jesus in, tonight's your night. I, I always want to give an opportunity to, I always want to give an opportunity to, I always want to give an opportunity to, come to the saving knowledge of the Lord, come to the saving knowledge of the Lord, come to the saving knowledge of the Lord, Jesus. Maybe you're you're here tonight, Jesus. Maybe you're you're here tonight, Jesus. Maybe you're you're here tonight, and you are you're backsliding. You're, and you are you're backsliding. You're, and you are you're backsliding. You're, watching this and snowstorm's coming or, watching this and snowstorm's coming or, watching this and snowstorm's coming or, whatever and you're like, "What's that, whatever and you're like, "What's that, whatever and you're like, "What's that, old guy saying now? I've seen him on, old guy saying now? I've seen him on, old guy saying now? I've seen him on, TikTok. I've seen him on on uh on on X, TikTok. I've seen him on on uh on on X, TikTok. I've seen him on on uh on on X, and all these other thing and I'm, and all these other thing and I'm, and all these other thing and I'm, curious about it. But you're not here, curious about it. But you're not here, curious about it. But you're not here, just to be a spectator. You're here, just to be a spectator. You're here, just to be a spectator. You're here, because Jesus signed you here tonight., because Jesus signed you here tonight., because Jesus signed you here tonight., I'm telling you, the Bible says that no, I'm telling you, the Bible says that no, I'm telling you, the Bible says that no, man comes to the father unless he calls, man comes to the father unless he calls, man comes to the father unless he calls, him. So I believe that tonight's your, him. So I believe that tonight's your, him. So I believe that tonight's your, night of salvation., night of salvation., night of salvation., The moment you confess your sins, Jesus, The moment you confess your sins, Jesus, The moment you confess your sins, Jesus, is faithful and just to forgive you of, is faithful and just to forgive you of, is faithful and just to forgive you of, your sins and cleanse you of all, your sins and cleanse you of all, your sins and cleanse you of all, unrighteousness. It's appointed unto, unrighteousness. It's appointed unto, unrighteousness. It's appointed unto, die. It's appointed unto man once to die, die. It's appointed unto man once to die, die. It's appointed unto man once to die, and after that the judgment., and after that the judgment., and after that the judgment., I believe that there's no other way to, I believe that there's no other way to, I believe that there's no other way to, the father other than the Lord Jesus, the father other than the Lord Jesus, the father other than the Lord Jesus, Christ. If you're not born again and you, Christ. If you're not born again and you, Christ. If you're not born again and you, don't know him, you're in trouble., But tonight's the night of salvation., But tonight's the night of salvation., That's the good news., That's the good news., That's the good news., The very shoes you put on today to go to, The very shoes you put on today to go to, The very shoes you put on today to go to, work, the undertaker might be taking, work, the undertaker might be taking, work, the undertaker might be taking, them off tonight., them off tonight., them off tonight., You don't know if tonight's your night, You don't know if tonight's your night, You don't know if tonight's your night, and and your number is going to be, and and your number is going to be, and and your number is going to be, called. So don't waste this opportunity., called. So don't waste this opportunity., called. So don't waste this opportunity., You may not have another one., Today's the day of salvation, Today's the day of salvation, right now., right now., right now., Or you could be lukewarm. You could be, Or you could be lukewarm. You could be, Or you could be lukewarm. You could be, backsliden. You could you could be, backsliden. You could you could be, backsliden. You could you could be, living for the world again. You're here, living for the world again. You're here, living for the world again. You're here, tonight and you want to have a fresh, tonight and you want to have a fresh, tonight and you want to have a fresh, clean start just like the prodal. The, clean start just like the prodal. The, clean start just like the prodal. The, prodical son was all in the pit and the, prodical son was all in the pit and the, prodical son was all in the pit and the, and he was laying there with the pigs, and he was laying there with the pigs, and he was laying there with the pigs, and he said, "If I could just go back to, and he said, "If I could just go back to, and he said, "If I could just go back to, my father's house and and be a servant, my father's house and and be a servant, my father's house and and be a servant, maybe he'd let me come home." But what, maybe he'd let me come home." But what, maybe he'd let me come home." But what, was awesome about the father, he was, was awesome about the father, he was, was awesome about the father, he was, there with the robe. He was there and he, there with the robe. He was there and he, there with the robe. He was there and he, told THE SERVANTS ABOUT, "HEY, GO KILL, told THE SERVANTS ABOUT, "HEY, GO KILL, told THE SERVANTS ABOUT, "HEY, GO KILL, the fatted calf. My son is home.", the fatted calf. My son is home.", the fatted calf. My son is home.", and they had a great celebration at his, and they had a great celebration at his, and they had a great celebration at his, return. That's the way our father is., return. That's the way our father is., return. That's the way our father is., I believe that that Jesus has never left, I believe that that Jesus has never left, I believe that that Jesus has never left, you and he's never forsaken you. You, you and he's never forsaken you. You, you and he's never forsaken you. You, turned your back on him. He didn't turn, turned your back on him. He didn't turn, turned your back on him. He didn't turn, it back on you. And the moment you, it back on you. And the moment you, it back on you. And the moment you, confess your sins is not when the Lord, confess your sins is not when the Lord, confess your sins is not when the Lord, found out about it. That's when you got, found out about it. That's when you got, found out about it. That's when you got, rid of it. And I believe tonight is the, rid of it. And I believe tonight is the, rid of it. And I believe tonight is the, night of salvation for you to come home., night of salvation for you to come home., night of salvation for you to come home., Come home., Come home., Come home., It's not time to run anymore. It's time, It's not time to run anymore. It's time, It's not time to run anymore. It's time, to come home. You're running out of, to come home. You're running out of, to come home. You're running out of, time. This dispensation of grace is, time. This dispensation of grace is, time. This dispensation of grace is, coming to an end, ladies and gentlemen., coming to an end, ladies and gentlemen., coming to an end, ladies and gentlemen., And I believe right now, if you would, And I believe right now, if you would, And I believe right now, if you would, just just yield yourself to the Lord, it, just just yield yourself to the Lord, it, just just yield yourself to the Lord, it, would be a fresh, clean start for you to, would be a fresh, clean start for you to, would be a fresh, clean start for you to, have a fresh, clean future., have a fresh, clean future., have a fresh, clean future., Behold, he said, I'll make all things, Behold, he said, I'll make all things, Behold, he said, I'll make all things, new., new., new., So, if this is what is speaking to you, So, if this is what is speaking to you, So, if this is what is speaking to you, and you feel that stirring on the inside, and you feel that stirring on the inside, and you feel that stirring on the inside, of you and you're here tonight and you, of you and you're here tonight and you, of you and you're here tonight and you, say, "Brendon, will you please pray for, say, "Brendon, will you please pray for, say, "Brendon, will you please pray for, me? Will you please pray for me, my, me? Will you please pray for me, my, me? Will you please pray for me, my, wife? Will you please pray for my kids?, wife? Will you please pray for my kids?, wife? Will you please pray for my kids?, Will you please play pray for my, Will you please play pray for my, Will you please play pray for my, husband?" We want to come back to Jesus, husband?" We want to come back to Jesus, husband?" We want to come back to Jesus, tonight., tonight., tonight., I feel stirring inside of me. You feel g, I feel stirring inside of me. You feel g, I feel stirring inside of me. You feel g, those those uh butterflies that those, those those uh butterflies that those, those those uh butterflies that those, goosebumps. You feel all that the flesh, goosebumps. You feel all that the flesh, goosebumps. You feel all that the flesh, stuff. and you're saying, "Man, I just, stuff. and you're saying, "Man, I just, stuff. and you're saying, "Man, I just, want to make a fresh, clean start.", want to make a fresh, clean start.", want to make a fresh, clean start.", I want you to be bold about your, I want you to be bold about your, I want you to be bold about your, decision tonight. And I want you to put, decision tonight. And I want you to put, decision tonight. And I want you to put, it in the comments section right now. I, it in the comments section right now. I, it in the comments section right now. I, want to be saved. I want to be born, want to be saved. I want to be born, want to be saved. I want to be born, again. I'm coming home to Jesus. I want, again. I'm coming home to Jesus. I want, again. I'm coming home to Jesus. I want, a fresh, clean start., Jesus died for you publicly. I want you, Jesus died for you publicly. I want you, to be public about your decision. We'll, to be public about your decision. We'll, to be public about your decision. We'll, wait on you for just a couple seconds, wait on you for just a couple seconds, wait on you for just a couple seconds, here. You tell us. I want a fresh, clean, here. You tell us. I want a fresh, clean, here. You tell us. I want a fresh, clean, start tonight. And I want to say a, start tonight. And I want to say a, start tonight. And I want to say a, simple prayer for you. It's just real, simple prayer for you. It's just real, simple prayer for you. It's just real, easy prayer. It's not a hard prayer., easy prayer. It's not a hard prayer., easy prayer. It's not a hard prayer., It's a simple prayer. A 5-year-old could, It's a simple prayer. A 5-year-old could, It's a simple prayer. A 5-year-old could, say it. He didn't make salvation hard., say it. He didn't make salvation hard., say it. He didn't make salvation hard., He just said it with the heart., He just said it with the heart., He just said it with the heart., Confessions made with the mouth, Confessions made with the mouth, Confessions made with the mouth, unto salvation. You got to believe in, unto salvation. You got to believe in, unto salvation. You got to believe in, your heart and confess with your mouth., Say it. I want Jesus., Say it. I want Jesus., So, we're going to say it right now. And, So, we're going to say it right now. And, So, we're going to say it right now. And, and if you're here tonight and you want, and if you're here tonight and you want, and if you're here tonight and you want, to freshly start, tonight's your night., to freshly start, tonight's your night., to freshly start, tonight's your night., So, say say, "Jesus, I believe you're, So, say say, "Jesus, I believe you're, So, say say, "Jesus, I believe you're, the son of God. I believe you died for, the son of God. I believe you died for, the son of God. I believe you died for, me and you rose again on the third day., me and you rose again on the third day., me and you rose again on the third day., I ask you to forgive me of my sins. I'm, I ask you to forgive me of my sins. I'm, I ask you to forgive me of my sins. I'm, a sinner and I need a savior. As of, a sinner and I need a savior. As of, a sinner and I need a savior. As of, tonight, I turn my back on THE WORLD. I, tonight, I turn my back on THE WORLD. I, tonight, I turn my back on THE WORLD. I, TURN MY BACK ON THE DEVIL. I TURN MY, TURN MY BACK ON THE DEVIL. I TURN MY, TURN MY BACK ON THE DEVIL. I TURN MY, BACK ON MY sin and from this day, BACK ON MY sin and from this day, BACK ON MY sin and from this day, forward, Lord, I'll serve you with all, forward, Lord, I'll serve you with all, forward, Lord, I'll serve you with all, my heart. I dedicate my life to you, my heart. I dedicate my life to you, my heart. I dedicate my life to you, Lord. I thank you, Lord, that you you, Lord. I thank you, Lord, that you you, Lord. I thank you, Lord, that you you, write my name in the Lamb's Book of, write my name in the Lamb's Book of, write my name in the Lamb's Book of, Life. That today I am forgiven of my, Life. That today I am forgiven of my, Life. That today I am forgiven of my, sins. That the MOMENT I'VE CONFESSED MY, sins. That the MOMENT I'VE CONFESSED MY, sins. That the MOMENT I'VE CONFESSED MY, SINS to you, you said in your word that, SINS to you, you said in your word that, SINS to you, you said in your word that, you're faithful and just, and you, you're faithful and just, and you, you're faithful and just, and you, cleanse me of my sins, and you don't, cleanse me of my sins, and you don't, cleanse me of my sins, and you don't, remember it anymore. THAT IT'S AS FAR AS, remember it anymore. THAT IT'S AS FAR AS, remember it anymore. THAT IT'S AS FAR AS, THIS east is from the west. You've taken, THIS east is from the west. You've taken, THIS east is from the west. You've taken, my sins from me and from this day, my sins from me and from this day, my sins from me and from this day, forward, Lord, I'll serve you all what, forward, Lord, I'll serve you all what, forward, Lord, I'll serve you all what, everything I have., everything I have., everything I have., Thank you, Lord, that you've invited me, Thank you, Lord, that you've invited me, Thank you, Lord, that you've invited me, to your kingdom. Thank you, Lord, that, to your kingdom. Thank you, Lord, that, to your kingdom. Thank you, Lord, that, you've washed me in in your precious, you've washed me in in your precious, you've washed me in in your precious, blood. Thank you, Lord, that I'm free, blood. Thank you, Lord, that I'm free, blood. Thank you, Lord, that I'm free, from all that of my past in Jesus name., from all that of my past in Jesus name., from all that of my past in Jesus name., And behold, you've made all things new., And behold, you've made all things new., And behold, you've made all things new., Amen. And amen. I believe that you just, Amen. And amen. I believe that you just, Amen. And amen. I believe that you just, got born again by that simple little, got born again by that simple little, got born again by that simple little, prayer. What do you do now? You go to a, prayer. What do you do now? You go to a, prayer. What do you do now? You go to a, bibleelving church. You find a I would, bibleelving church. You find a I would, bibleelving church. You find a I would, go to a non-denominational church more, go to a non-denominational church more, go to a non-denominational church more, is where we would go. And I would tell, is where we would go. And I would tell, is where we would go. And I would tell, that pastor at that church, I need to be, that pastor at that church, I need to be, that pastor at that church, I need to be, waterbaptized. Get water baptized with, waterbaptized. Get water baptized with, waterbaptized. Get water baptized with, water., water., water., Make a public uh declaration that I'm a, Make a public uh declaration that I'm a, Make a public uh declaration that I'm a, Christian. All the things you can do., Christian. All the things you can do., Christian. All the things you can do., Get water baptized. read your Bible, Get water baptized. read your Bible, Get water baptized. read your Bible, every day and and pray and and seek him, every day and and pray and and seek him, every day and and pray and and seek him, every day. Find that go to that church., every day. Find that go to that church., every day. Find that go to that church., Go to Sunday, Wednesday, whenever they, Go to Sunday, Wednesday, whenever they, Go to Sunday, Wednesday, whenever they, have church available to go to it. Bible, have church available to go to it. Bible, have church available to go to it. Bible, study, whatever you got to do. Get, study, whatever you got to do. Get, study, whatever you got to do. Get, plugged in. Don't go back to what you, plugged in. Don't go back to what you, plugged in. Don't go back to what you, were doing before. Go and say, "Hey, I'm, were doing before. Go and say, "Hey, I'm, were doing before. Go and say, "Hey, I'm, I I choose to follow Jesus today and I'm, I I choose to follow Jesus today and I'm, I I choose to follow Jesus today and I'm, coming with a new life, a new way of, coming with a new life, a new way of, coming with a new life, a new way of, thinking. Holy Spirit, help me. I can't, thinking. Holy Spirit, help me. I can't, thinking. Holy Spirit, help me. I can't, do this on my own." And the Bible says, do this on my own." And the Bible says, do this on my own." And the Bible says, that the Holy Spirit is an everpresent, that the Holy Spirit is an everpresent, that the Holy Spirit is an everpresent, help in a time of need, the Lord is. So, help in a time of need, the Lord is. So, help in a time of need, the Lord is. So, I believe that today is your day of a, I believe that today is your day of a, I believe that today is your day of a, turnaround., turnaround., turnaround., So praise the Lord. Now, if you can't, So praise the Lord. Now, if you can't, So praise the Lord. Now, if you can't, afford a Bible and you don't have one, afford a Bible and you don't have one, afford a Bible and you don't have one, and you say, "Brandon, I I I need a, and you say, "Brandon, I I I need a, and you say, "Brandon, I I I need a, Bible." My wife and I will buy you a, Bible." My wife and I will buy you a, Bible." My wife and I will buy you a, Bible. In the description down below is, Bible. In the description down below is, Bible. In the description down below is, an email address. Tell us in the, an email address. Tell us in the, an email address. Tell us in the, description. We I would like to have my, description. We I would like to have my, description. We I would like to have my, Bible. I got born again on your, Bible. I got born again on your, Bible. I got born again on your, broadcast and I want a my Bible and, broadcast and I want a my Bible and, broadcast and I want a my Bible and, we'll send you one from Amazon. And so, we'll send you one from Amazon. And so, we'll send you one from Amazon. And so, we just want to celebrate your decision, we just want to celebrate your decision, we just want to celebrate your decision, tonight, whoever got born again, and, tonight, whoever got born again, and, tonight, whoever got born again, and, just be excited that you just made the, just be excited that you just made the, just be excited that you just made the, best decision of your life is to turn, best decision of your life is to turn, best decision of your life is to turn, before they burn. And so, praise God in, before they burn. And so, praise God in, before they burn. And so, praise God in, Jesus name., Jesus name., Jesus name., Is there anybody got saved?, Is there anybody got saved?, Is there anybody got saved?, 37 people gave their hearts to Jesus, 37 people gave their hearts to Jesus, 37 people gave their hearts to Jesus, Christ tonight. Welcome to the family., Christ tonight. Welcome to the family., Christ tonight. Welcome to the family., All 37 of you. That's wonderful., All 37 of you. That's wonderful., All 37 of you. That's wonderful., I'm so glad I went ahead and gave an, I'm so glad I went ahead and gave an, I'm so glad I went ahead and gave an, altra call. 37 people all gave their, altra call. 37 people all gave their, altra call. 37 people all gave their, heart to Jesus Christ. Welcome to the, heart to Jesus Christ. Welcome to the, heart to Jesus Christ. Welcome to the, family, all of you that gave your heart, family, all of you that gave your heart, family, all of you that gave your heart, to Christ. And we're happy for you., to Christ. And we're happy for you., to Christ. And we're happy for you., We're we're excited. We rejoice with, We're we're excited. We rejoice with, We're we're excited. We rejoice with, your decision. So, we love you. So, come, your decision. So, we love you. So, come, your decision. So, we love you. So, come, over here and and like and subscribe., over here and and like and subscribe., over here and and like and subscribe., Click that notification. Come over here, Click that notification. Come over here, Click that notification. Come over here, and pray with us all the time. We, and pray with us all the time. We, and pray with us all the time. We, appreciate it. We're we're believing for, appreciate it. We're we're believing for, appreciate it. We're we're believing for, a million men and women prayer army to, a million men and women prayer army to, a million men and women prayer army to, rise up in these last days to pray for, rise up in these last days to pray for, rise up in these last days to pray for, the things we saw tonight. And um I, the things we saw tonight. And um I, the things we saw tonight. And um I, don't know. I I know it's over two, don't know. I I know it's over two, don't know. I I know it's over two, hours, so I didn't want to keep you all, hours, so I didn't want to keep you all, hours, so I didn't want to keep you all, too late and it's already gone really, too late and it's already gone really, too late and it's already gone really, late. I could go keep praying, but, late. I could go keep praying, but, late. I could go keep praying, but, I think it's pretty good. I don't even, I think it's pretty good. I don't even, I think it's pretty good. I don't even, know what time it is. Oh, it's almost, know what time it is. Oh, it's almost, know what time it is. Oh, it's almost, midnight., midnight., midnight., So, but Father, we just thank you, Lord, So, but Father, we just thank you, Lord, So, but Father, we just thank you, Lord, as as we close this today., as as we close this today., as as we close this today., We're so grateful for every single, We're so grateful for every single, We're so grateful for every single, person who comes out so so uh consistent, person who comes out so so uh consistent, person who comes out so so uh consistent, to support and pray with us. Thank you, to support and pray with us. Thank you, to support and pray with us. Thank you, Father, for every person that's here, Father, for every person that's here, Father, for every person that's here, tonight. I lift them up before you. I, tonight. I lift them up before you. I, tonight. I lift them up before you. I, thank you that they're safe all over, thank you that they're safe all over, thank you that they're safe all over, America. People are safe from this, America. People are safe from this, America. People are safe from this, storm. That we call forth the the the, storm. That we call forth the the the, storm. That we call forth the the the, snow to to cease and desist in the name, snow to to cease and desist in the name, snow to to cease and desist in the name, of Jesus. And we thank you, Lord, that, of Jesus. And we thank you, Lord, that, of Jesus. And we thank you, Lord, that, the blessing of the Lord is on this time, the blessing of the Lord is on this time, the blessing of the Lord is on this time, frame that they have with their kids, frame that they have with their kids, frame that they have with their kids, with their loved ones. And if you're, with their loved ones. And if you're, with their loved ones. And if you're, single, spend time with the Lord., single, spend time with the Lord., single, spend time with the Lord., Find a good Derek Prince uh uh uh sermon, Find a good Derek Prince uh uh uh sermon, Find a good Derek Prince uh uh uh sermon, I was listening to today about the, I was listening to today about the, I was listening to today about the, tongue, about your tongue. Power of the, tongue, about your tongue. Power of the, tongue, about your tongue. Power of the, life and death is in the tongue. It, life and death is in the tongue. It, life and death is in the tongue. It, blessed me so I was listening to it., blessed me so I was listening to it., blessed me so I was listening to it., I enjoyed it. He I've been listening to, I enjoyed it. He I've been listening to, I enjoyed it. He I've been listening to, his stuff now. You know, I I go and I, his stuff now. You know, I I go and I, his stuff now. You know, I I go and I, listen to Brother Hagen so much and then, listen to Brother Hagen so much and then, listen to Brother Hagen so much and then, I found him and I'm like, "Hey, I I like, I found him and I'm like, "Hey, I I like, I found him and I'm like, "Hey, I I like, this guy. Pretty good stuff." So, well, this guy. Pretty good stuff." So, well, this guy. Pretty good stuff." So, well, praise the Lord. Well, did that bless, praise the Lord. Well, did that bless, praise the Lord. Well, did that bless, you all tonight? Well, I don't know if, you all tonight? Well, I don't know if, you all tonight? Well, I don't know if, it blessed you too much, but I it it is, it blessed you too much, but I it it is, it blessed you too much, but I it it is, what it is. I gave the what the Lord, what it is. I gave the what the Lord, what it is. I gave the what the Lord, told me to., told me to., told me to., So, So, So, Oh, there's a whole bunch of people, Oh, there's a whole bunch of people, Oh, there's a whole bunch of people, here, huh?, &gt;&gt; What?, &gt;&gt; What?, &gt;&gt; Well, why?, &gt;&gt; Well, why?, &gt;&gt; Well, why?, A lot of people went home. All right., A lot of people went home. All right., A lot of people went home. All right., Well, we thank you for joining us. I, Well, we thank you for joining us. I, Well, we thank you for joining us. I, guess that's good., guess that's good., guess that's good., Remember, we love you and Jesus loves, Remember, we love you and Jesus loves, Remember, we love you and Jesus loves, you. Put a smile on your face and a song, you. Put a smile on your face and a song, you. Put a smile on your face and a song, in your heart and we'll see you again. I, in your heart and we'll see you again. I, in your heart and we'll see you again. I, believe probably tomorrow, maybe. I, believe probably tomorrow, maybe. I, believe probably tomorrow, maybe. I, don't know. We'll see what we're doing., don't know. We'll see what we're doing., don't know. We'll see what we're doing., I believe I probably will pray for a, I believe I probably will pray for a, I believe I probably will pray for a, little bit tomorrow. We'll jump in the, little bit tomorrow. We'll jump in the, little bit tomorrow. We'll jump in the, river more. I felt like I delivered what, river more. I felt like I delivered what, river more. I felt like I delivered what, I supposed to and and and I felt a, I supposed to and and and I felt a, I supposed to and and and I felt a, release. So, God bless you all. We'll, release. So, God bless you all. We'll, release. So, God bless you all. We'll, see you again soon. Bye-bye.
