Timestamp: 2026-10-09T02:19:59.612201
Title: Dipanshu Kushwaha - Don't waste 2 years learning to become an AI agentic engineer in 2026... 2108039067640500298
URL: https://x.com/Dipanshu_AI/status/2108039067640500298?s=20
Status: success
Duration: 1:45:51

Description:
---

### **PART 1. Author's Map (作者架构图谱)**

#### 1. Core Thesis (核心论点)
智能体工作流（Agentic AI Workflows）通过将复杂任务拆解为多步骤的迭代循环、工具调用与多角色协作，能够实现远超单次单步大语言模型（LLM）调用的应用效果；而决定开发者能否构建出真正高价值智能体系统的关键，在于能否驱动一套以“错误分析（Error Analysis）”与“针对性评估（EVals）”为核心的严谨工程开发流程。

#### 2. Evidentiary Base (论据基础)
*   **硬性基准数据 (Hard Data)**：引用 GPT-3.5 与 GPT-4 在 HumanEval 编码基准测试上的表现（GPT-3.5 零样本 48%，GPT-4 零样本 67%，而包裹在 Agentic 循环中的 GPT-3.5 性能显著超越了零样本 GPT-4）。
*   **应用案例与场景 (Examples & Case Studies)**：深度研究智能体（如 SpaceX 竞争调研案例）、发票信息抽取与数据库更新、客户服务订单响应、Instagram 营销文案生成、HuggingGPT（规划）、ChatDev（多 Agent 协作软件公司）。
*   **行业现象与历史参照 (Historical Precedent & Anecdotes)**：回顾 AI 社区关于“何为真正 Agent”的概念争论；提及作者在 *The Batch* 发表文章倡导将 "agentic" 视为连续光谱形容词而非二元名词的历程；类比人类写文章（草稿-研究-修改）与软件开发的多线程/多进程协作。

#### 3. Logical Warrant (逻辑推论机制)
*   **归纳与类比推理 (Analogy & Induction)**：人类最优质的产出（写作、研究、代码）绝非不按退格键“一气呵成”的线性过程，而是“思考-行动-评估-修正”的迭代循环；大语言模型受限于推断机制，同样符合此规律。因此，将人类的高级认知习惯（反思、使用工具、分步规划、分工协作）解构为外部软件架构，能够系统性提升 LLM 的任务完成上限。

#### 4. Stated Scope (明确边界与适用范围)
*   **光谱连续性**：工作流分布于“低自主度（硬编码确定性步骤）”到“高自主度（LLM 动态决定步骤与创建工具）”的连续光谱上。
*   **应用场景**：覆盖客服响应、深度行业/法律/医疗研究、发票与文档自动化处理、代码编写等。
*   **适用优先级**：明确强调应优先保证“输出质量”，最后再进行“成本与延迟（Cost & Latency）”的优化。

#### 5. Implicit Opponent (隐性对立面)
*   **概念教条主义者**：执着于辩论“什么才是真正的 Agent”、争论自主度阈值的学术与技术人员。
*   **模型唯尺寸论者**：期望仅靠升级基座模型（如从 GPT-3.5 到 GPT-4）来解决一切复杂应用问题，而忽视外部工作流设计的开发者。
*   **直觉驱动型开发者**：缺乏工程纪律，凭感觉修改 Prompt，不建立针对性 Eval、不阅读中间输出 Trace 进行错误分析的工程人员。

#### 6. Intended Takeaway (预期目标)
引导开发者摆脱 Agent 炒作与概念争论，掌握四大核心设计模式（Reflection, Tool Use, Planning, Multi-Agent），并建立“快速原型 -> 审查 Trace -> 错误分析 -> 建立小样本 EVal -> 组件迭代优化”的工程范式，从而具备构建高性能 Agentic AI 应用的能力。

---

### **PART 2. Hostile-But-Very-Fair REVIEW (批判性审查)**

#### 1. Steelman (强力重述)
智能体工作流（Agentic Workflows）重构了大模型落地的工程范式。通过将复杂的单一提示词分解为多步动态循环（反思、工具调用、规划与多智能体分工），它不仅突破了单次推断的上下文与推理上限（使旧模型通过架构包装战胜新模型），还为非确定性的生成式 AI 提供了具备可观测性（Traces）、可度量性（EVals）与可干预性（Component-level iteration）的标准软件工程框架。

#### 2. Weakest Link (最薄弱环节)
> **关键假设原文**：*"...as large as the improvement was from GPT 3.5 to GPT 4, that improvement is dwarfed by what you can achieve by wrapping GPT 3.5 within an agentic workflow."*

*   **失效分析**：该核心论点极度依赖于“不计 Token 消耗与时延成本”的假设。若一个 Agentic 循环为了获得 10% 的准确率提升，消耗了 20 倍的 Token 并带来了数十秒的时延，其在工业界的实际可行性将大打折扣。更致命的是，随着基座模型向“推断期计算/原生思维链”（如 OpenAI o1 类推理模型）演进，模型内部已原生内化了“自我纠错与多步规划”能力。这使得外部显式搭建的繁琐 Agentic 框架面临被“底层模型能力提升”瞬间归零的巨大风险（即过度工程化 Over-engineering）。

#### 3. Evidence Audit (证据审计)
*   **基准测试选择性偏误 (Cherry-picking)**：仅展示了 HumanEval（代码生成）这一极其适合“运行-报错-修正”反馈闭环的基准。在非确定性极强、缺乏客观验证器（Validator）的领域（如主观写作、复杂法律意见），Reflection 往往会导致“越改越差”或“自我强化错误（Hallucination Compounding）”。
*   **级联失效（Cascading Failure）被隐瞒**：文本展示了长链条规划与多步 Agent 协作的美好图景，但回避了概率累乘问题。若每个子步骤准确率为 90%，在包含 6 个步骤的规划链中，端到端整体成功率将断崖式下跌至 $0.9^6 \approx 53\%$。
*   **成本与时延数据缺失**：虽然宣称“并行化可以提速”，但对于多次调用 LLM 带来的绝对时延增加与 API 账单暴涨，缺乏任何对比数据。

#### 4. Hidden Premises (隐藏前提)
*   **前提 1：任务具有完备的可分解性**。假设所有复杂任务都能无损拆解为简单子任务，且子任务边界清晰。（*反问：如果任务的本质复杂性存在于跨领域的隐性关联中，强制拆解是否会导致“只见树木不见森林”的信息割裂？*）
*   **前提 2：LLM 作为裁判（LLM-as-a-Judge）具备足够的无偏性与客观性**。假设模型能够准确识别自身或其它模型的错误。（*反问：当模型存在盲区或幻觉时，让模型“反思”或“评估”是否只是在做无意义的自合规循环？*）

#### 5. The Blind Side (盲区分析)
*   **系统不可预测性与控制地狱**：高度自主的规划（Planning）与全连接多智能体（All-to-All Multi-Agent）赋予了系统在运行时（Runtime）自由选择路径的权力。这直接打破了传统软件工程的回归测试（Regression Testing）与安全合规审计基础，在金融、医疗等强监管领域几乎无法落地。
*   **运维复杂度（Maintanability）爆表**：多 Agent 互相发消息的动态交互模式，极易陷入死循环或无限等待，调试与链路追踪成本将呈指数级上升。

#### 6. One Hit Kill (致命一击)
在缺乏确定性外部验证器（如编译器或正则校验）的主观长链条任务中，由于概率级联衰减与幻觉自我强化，高自主度 Agent 链条的端到端成功率极低。**如果为了控制成功率而不得不将所有步骤重新硬编码为确定性工作流，那么“高自主度 Agent AI”相对于传统软件工程的独特价值究竟在哪里？**

#### 7. What Would Settle It (验证标准)
在固定的 API 预算（Cost Cap）与绝对响应时间限制（Latency Ceiling）下，选择 100 个复杂的真实世界非代码业务场景，对比：
1. **显式 Agentic 框架**（多步 Reflection + Planning + 多 Agent 协作）
2. **原生推理大模型**（如具有内部 Test-Time Compute 思考过程的模型单次输出）

若显式 Agentic 框架在端到端准确率、稳定性与可维护性上未能展现出统计显著的优势，则证明复杂外部 Agent 架构仅为基座模型能力不足时的过渡性工程代偿。

---

### **PART 3. Conceptual Map (Mermaid 概念图谱)**

<Mermaid_Diagram>
graph TD
    subgraph SG_Core["💡 核心主张与范式转变 Core Thesis"]
        A["<b>Agentic AI 工作流范式</b><br/>从单次 Prompt 走向迭代式多步系统"] --> B["<b>核心价值</b>: 架构包装旧模型可超越新模型 (如 GPT-3.5+Agent > GPT-4)"]
        A --> C["<b>核心工程驱动力</b>: 严谨的评估 (EVals) 与错误分析 (Error Analysis)"]
    end

    subgraph SG_Patterns["🧩 四大核心设计模式 4 Key Design Patterns"]
        direction TB
        P1["<b>1. Reflection (反思)</b><br/>生成-批评-自我修正循环 / 代码报错反馈"]
        P2["<b>2. Tool Use (工具调用)</b><br/>扩展能力边界: 搜索、数据库、代码执行 API"]
        P3["<b>3. Planning (规划)</b><br/>动态分解任务为 JSON/代码步骤 (如 HuggingGPT)"]
        P4["<b>4. Multi-Agent (多智能体协作)</b><br/>模拟角色分工 (研究员/设计师/写作者)"]
    end

    subgraph SG_Engineering["🛠️ 严谨工程开发方法论 Disciplined Eng Methodology"]
        direction TB
        E1["<b>快速原型 (Quick & Dirty Prototype)</b><br/>先构建端到端流程，切忌空谈理论"] --> E2["<b>审查追踪 (Examine Traces / Spans)</b><br/>检查中间步骤输出，识别子组件缺陷"]
        E2 --> E3["<b>错误分析 (Error Analysis)</b><br/>使用电子表格统计各类错误频次，定位最弱环节"]
        E3 --> E4["<b>建立针对性评估 (EVals)</b><br/>客观(代码) vs 主观(LLM-as-a-Judge)<br/>基于单样本Ground Truth vs 全局标准"]
        E4 --> E5["<b>组件级迭代与优化</b><br/>优化 Prompt / 换模型 / 微调 / 调整参数"]
        E5 -- "收敛后再改进" --> E6["<b>成本与延迟优化 (Cost & Latency)</b><br/>性能达标后再做并行化与模型瘦身"]
    end

    subgraph SG_Spectrum["🎛️ 自主度光谱 Spectrum of Autonomy"]
        S1["<b>低自主度 (Determinstic)</b><br/>硬编码步骤，结果可预测，商用主力"]
        S2["<b>半自主度 (Semi-Autonomous)</b><br/>预定义工具箱，LLM 决定选择"]
        S3["<b>高自主度 (Highly Autonomous)</b><br/>动态规划步骤、生成工具，控制难度高"]
        S1 --> S2 --> S3
    end

    subgraph SG_Critique["🚩 批判性审视 Hostile-But-Very-Fair Review"]
        direction TB
        CR_WeakLink["<b>致命弱点: 级联失效与过度工程</b><br/>概率累乘致长链条崩溃；原生推理模型(o1)正在替代外部架构"]
        CR_Evidence["<b>证据审计</b>: 过于依赖 HumanEval 代码基准；忽略 Token 成本暴涨与绝对延迟"]
        CR_Premise["<b>隐性假设</b>: 假定任务可无损拆解，假定 LLM-as-a-Judge 无偏差反思"]
        CR_Kill["<b>一击致命</b>: 无客观验证器时，高自主 Agent 成功率极低，最终不得不退化为确定性硬编码"]
    end

    %% Wiring
    SG_Core --> SG_Patterns
    SG_Core --> SG_Engineering
    SG_Core --> SG_Spectrum

    P1 & P2 & P3 & P4 -. "集成于" .-> SG_Engineering
    SG_Engineering -. "受到批判挑战" .-> SG_Critique
    SG_Spectrum -. "映射" .-> CR_Kill

    %% --- Node & Subgraph Styles ---
    classDef mainClaim fill:#FFFACD,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:3px,color:#333
    classDef patternNode fill:#E0F7FA,stroke:#00ACC1,stroke-width:2px,color:#006064
    classDef engNode fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#43A047,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20
    classDef spectrumNode fill:#FFF3E0,stroke:#FB8C00,stroke-width:2px,color:#E65100
    classDef reviewNode fill:#FFCDD2,stroke:#D32F2F,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#B71C1C

    class A,B,C mainClaim
    class P1,P2,P3,P4 patternNode
    class E1,E2,E3,E4,E5,E6 engNode
    class S1,S2,S3 spectrumNode
    class CR_WeakLink,CR_Evidence,CR_Premise,CR_Kill reviewNode

    style SG_Core fill:#FFFDE7,stroke:#FFD700,stroke-width:2px,color:#333
    style SG_Patterns fill:#E0F7FA,stroke:#00ACC1,stroke-width:2px,color:#006064
    style SG_Engineering fill:#E8F5E9,stroke:#43A047,stroke-width:2px,color:#1B5E20
    style SG_Spectrum fill:#FFF3E0,stroke:#FB8C00,stroke-width:2px,color:#E65100
    style SG_Critique fill:#FFEBEE,stroke:#EF5350,stroke-width:2.5px,color:#C62828
</Mermaid_Diagram>

Content:
When I coined the term agentate to describe when I saw as a important and rapidly growing trend in how people were building on based applications, what I did not realize was that a bunch of marketers would get hold of this term and use it as a sticker and put this on almost everything in sight. And that has caused hype on agentate AI to skyrocket. The good news though is that ignoring the hype, the number of truly valuable and useful applications built using agentate AI has also grown drawn very rapidly, even if not quite as rapidly as the hype. And in this course, what I'd like to do is show you best practices for building agentic AI applications. And this opens up a lot of new opportunities to you in terms of working out builds. Today, agentic workflows are being used to build applications like customer support agents or to do deep research, to help write deeply insightful research reports, or to process legal documents or to look at patient input and render or to suggest possible medical diagnoses. On many of my teams, a lot of the projects we built just would be impossible with our agentic workflows and so knowing how the build applications with them is one of the most important and valuable skills in AI today. It turns out that one of the biggest differences I've seen between people that really know how to build agentic workflows compared to people that are less effective at it is the ability to drive a disciplined development process, especially one focus on e-vows and error analysis. And in this course, I'll tell you what that means and show you what allows you to be really good at building these agentic workflows. Build and do this is one of the most important skills in AI today and will open up a lot more opportunities, be job opportunities or opportunities to just build amazing software yourself. With that, let's go on to the next video to dive more into what our agentic workloads. So what is agentic AI and why are agentic AI workfills so powerful? Let's take a look. The way that many of us use last language models or LMS today is by prompting it to say write an essay for us on a certain topic X. And I think of that as a kin to going to a human or in this case going to an AI and asking it to please type out an essay for me by writing from the first word to the last word on one go and without ever using backspace. It turns out that we as people we don't do our best writing like that by being forced to write in just completely linear order and nor do AI models. But despite the difficulty of being constrained to write in this way, our LMS do surprisingly well. In contrast, we need genetic work though. This is what the process might look like. You may ask it to first write an essay online and listen to the topic. Then ask if it needs to do anywhere research and after doing some web research and maybe downloading some web pages, then direct the first draft and then to read the first draft and see what parts need provision or more research and then revise the draft and so on. And this type of workflow is more akin to doing some thinking and some research and then doing some revision and then doing some more thinking and so on. And with this iterative process, it turns out that an agentic workflow can take longer but it delivers a much better work product. So an agentic AI workflow is a process as well an LM-based app, execute multiple steps to complete a task. In this example, you might use an LM to write the first SAL line, and then you might use an LM to decide what search terms to type into a web search engine, or really what search terms to call a web search API with in order to get back relevant web pages. Based on that, you can feed the downloaded web pages into an LM to have it write the first draft, And it may be used another OM to reflect and decide what needs more revision, and then depending on how you design this work though, perhaps you may even add a human in the loop step where the OM has the option to request human review. Maybe of some key facts and based on that, it may then revise the draft and this process results in a much better work output. One of the key skills you learn in this course is how to take a complex task, like writing an essay, and breaking it down into smaller steps for agentic workflows to execute one step at a time to then get the work output that you want. And knowing how to decompose the tasks into steps and how to build the components to execute the individual steps well turns out to be a tricky but important skill that will determine your ability to build agentic workflows for a huge range of exciting applications. In this course, a run example that we'll use and something that you build alongside me is a research agent. So here's an example of what it will look like. You can enter a research topic like how do I build a new rocket company to compete with SpaceX? I don't personally want to compete with SpaceX, but if you want to, you can try asking a research agent to help you background research. So this agent starts with planning out what research to use, including calling a web search engine to download some web pages and then to synthesize and rank findings, drop a outline, have an edges agent review for coherence and then finally generate a comprehensive markdown report, which it has done here. Building a new rocket complete with SpaceX, with an intro, background, findings, and so on. I think the point of the appropriately that this is going to be a tough start up to build. So I'm not personally planning to do this, but if you want to tackle something like this, maybe a research agent like this could hope you have some initial research. And by finding and downloading multiple sources and deeply thinking about it, this actually ends up with a much more thoughtful report than just prompting them to write an essay for you would. One of the reasons I'm excited about this because in my work, I've ended up building quite a few specialized research agents being in legal documents for complex legal compliance or for some healthcare sectors or some business product research areas. And so I hope that working through this example, you not only learn how to build agentic workflows for many other applications, but that some of the idea is in building research agents will be directly useful to you if you ever need to build a custom research agent yourself. Now, one of the often discussed areas of AI agents is how autonomous are they. What you just saw here was a relatively complex, highly autonomous, agentech AI workflow, but there are also other simpler workflows that are incredibly valuable. Let's go into the next video to talk about the degree to which agentech workflows can be autonomous, and to give you a framework to think about how you might go about building different applications and how easy or difficult it might be. See you in the next video. Agents can be autonomous to different degrees. A few years ago, I noticed with an AI community that there was a growing controversial debate about what is an agent, and some people are writing a paper saying about an agent, and others say, no, that's not really a true agent. And I felt this debate was unnecessary, which is why I started using the term agente because I thought if we use it as an adjective rather than a bind of ease, either an agent or not, then we can have just acknowledge that systems can be agente to different degrees. And this is called all agent can move on with the real work of building these systems rather than debating, you know, is this sufficiently autonomous to be an agent or not. I remember when I prepared a talk on agent One of my team members actually came to me and said, hey, I don't need yet another word. You know, we have agent. Why you may care of another word, agent. But I decided to use it anyway. And later on, I wrote an article in a demonized newsletter, The Batch, and then also post on social media saying that instead of arguing over which word include exclude has been a true agent, let's acknowledge the different degrees to which systems can be agentic. And I think this helped move past the debates on what is a true agent and let us just focus on actually building them. Some agents can be less autonomous. So take the example of writing essay about black holes. You can have a relatively simple agent to come up with a few web search terms or web search queries. Then you can hard code in that you call a web search engine, fetch some web pages and use that to write an essay. this, for example, of less autonomous agents with a fully deterministic sequence of steps and this will work. Okay, in terms of notational convention, throughout this course, I use the red color as you see here on the left to denote the user input, such as a user query in this case or later examples, maybe the input document into an agentic workflow. The gray boxes denote calls to an LM And the green boxes, like the web search and the web fetch boxes that you see here, indicate steps where other software is being used to carry out an action, such as a web search API call or excluding code to fetch the contents of a website. Then an agent can be more autonomous, where given a request to write an essay about black holes, perhaps you let the OM decide does it want to do a web search or does it want to search recent new sources, or does it want to search for recent research papers on the website archive? Based on that, maybe in this example, the LOM, not the human engineer, but the LOM chooses in this case to call a web search engine. And then after that, you may let the LOM decide how many web pages does it want to fetch, or if it fetched the PDF, does it need to call a function, or also call the tool, to convert the PDF to text. And in this case, maybe it fetches It's top few web pages, then it can write an essay, decide whether to reflect and improve, and maybe even go back to fetch more web pages and then finally produce an output. And so even for this example of a research agent, we can see that some agents can be less autonomous with a linear sequence of steps to be executed determined by a programmer, and some can be more autonomous where you trust the OM to make more decisions. And the exact sequence of steps that happens maybe even determined by the R rather than in advance by the programmer. So for less autonomous systems you will usually have all the steps predetermined in advance and any functions it calls like web search and we'll call that tool use as you learn in the third module in this course might be hard coded by the human engineer by you and me and most of the autonomy is in what text the R generates. At the end of this spectrum would be highly autonomous agents where the agent makes many decisions autonomously, including, for example, deciding what is the sequence of steps it will carry out in order to write the essay. And there's some highly autonomous agents that can even write new functions, or we sometimes say, create new tools that it can then execute. And someone in between are semi-autonomizations. We can make some decisions choose tools, but the tools are usually more predefined. As you look at different examples in this course, you learn how to build applications anywhere on on this spectrum of less to more highly autonomous. And you find that there are tons of applications in the less autonomous end of the spectrum, the very valuable being built for tons of businesses today. And at the same time, there are also applications being worked on at the more highly autonomous end of the spectrum. But those are usually less easily controllable, a little bit more unpredictable, and also a lot of active research as well to figure out how to build these more highly autonomous agents. And with that, let's go on to the next video to dive deeper into this and to hear about some of the benefits of using agents and why they allow us to do things that just were not possible with early generations of based applications. I think the one biggest benefit of agentic work, those is that allows you to do many tasks effectively that just previously were not possible. But there are other benefits as well, including parallelism that lets you do certain things quite fast as well as modularity that as you combine the best of recomponents from many different places to build an effective workflow. Let's take a look. My team collected some data on a coding benchmark that tests the ability of different OOMs to write code to carry out certain toss. The benchmark news in this case is called Human Yeavow and turns out that GPT 3.5 does its model that the first hopefully available version of charge GPD was based on, if asked to write the code directly, they just type out the computer program against 48% right on this bench bar. This is a passive K metric. GPD 4 is a much better model. Its performance leaps to 67% with this also non-agentic workflow. But it turns out that as large as the improvement was from GPD 3.5 to GPD 4, that improvement is dwarfed by what you can achieved by wrapping GPT 3.5 within an agentic workflow. Using different agentic techniques, which you learn about later in this course, you can prompt GPT 3.5 to write code and then maybe reflect on the code and figure out they can improve it. And using techniques like that, you can actually get GPT 3.5 to get much higher levels of performance. And similarly, GPT 4, use in the context of an agentic workflow also does much better. So even with today's best LMS, an agenteic workflow that's you get much better performance. And in fact, what we saw in this example was the improvement from one generation of model to another, which is huge, is still not as big a difference as implementing an agenteic workflow on the previous generation of model. Another benefit of using agenteic workflows is that they can parallelize some tasks and does do certain things much faster than a human. For example, if you ask an agenteic workflow to write and that's about black holes. You might be able to have VOMs run in parallel to generate ideas for web search terms to type into search engine. Based on the first web search, it may identify, say, three top results to fetch. And based on the second web search, it should be identifying a second set of web pages to fetch and so on. And it turns out that whereas a human doing those research would have to read these nine web pages sequentially you're one at a time, when you're using an agentic workflow, you can actually paralyze all nine web page downloads, and then finally feed all these things into an alarm to write an essay. So even though agentic workflows do take longer than truly non-agentic workflows, or by direct generation that I just prompting a single time, if you were to compare this type of agentic workflow to how a human would have to go about the task, the ability to paralyze downloading loss of web pages can actually let it do certain tasks much faster than the non-parallel sequential way that a single human might process this data. To build on this example, it turns out one of the things I often do when building agent and workflows is look at the individual components like the LM and add or swap out components. So for example, maybe I look at a web search engine I use up here and I might decide that I want to swap in a new web search engine. In building a general workflow, there are actually multiple web search engines, including Google, which can access by server as well as others like Bing, Dr. Go, Tavilly, U.com. There are actually quite a lot of options for web search engines designed for OM's to use. Or maybe instead of just doing three web searches, maybe on this step, you can swap in a new news search engine so they can find out what's the latest news on recent breakthroughs on black whole science. And lastly, instead of using the same alone for all of the different steps, I will often try out different large language models and maybe try out different alone providers to see which one gives the best result for different steps of this system. So to summarize, the main reason I use Agenda Workforce is to just give much better performance on many different applications. But in addition, it can also paralyze some tasks that humans who otherwise have to do sequentially. And the modular design of many agent work flows also lets us add update tools and sometimes swap out models. We'll talk a lot about the key components that building agent work flows. Let's now take a look at a range of agent AI applications. To give you a sense of the sorts of things people are already building and the sorts of things you build to build yourself. Let's go on to the next video. People and businesses do a lot of stuff. How do you take this useful stuff that we do and break it down into discrete steps for an agentic workflow to follow? Let's take a look. Take the example of building a research agent. If you want a assistant to write an essay on a topic X, one thing you could do is prompt an on to have it generate an output directly. But if you were to do this for topics that you want deeply research you may find that the own output covers only the surface level points or maybe covers only the obvious facts but doesn't go as deep into the subject as you wanted to. In this case you might then reflect on how you as a human were writing essay on a certain topic which is just sit down and start writing or would you take multiple steps such as first write an essay online and then search the rep and then based on the input from the web search write the essay And as I take a task and decompose it into steps, one question I'm always asking myself is, if it look at these steps, one, two, and three, can each of them be done either by an LM or by a short piece of code or by a function called by a tool. And so in this case, I think the LM can maybe write a decent outline on many topics that I would want it to help me think through. So say, probably okay on the first step. And then I know how to use an LM to Generate search terms to search the web. So I would say the second step is also doable. And then based on web search, I think an alarm could input the web search results and write an essay. And so this would be a reasonable first attempt at an agentic workflow for writing an essay that goes deeper than just direct generation. But if I were to then implement this agentic workflow, and look at the results, maybe you find that the results still aren't good enough. It's still not yet as deeply thoughtful, maybe the essays are a little bit disjointed. This has actually happened to me. Once built a research agent using this as a workflow, but when I read the output, it felt a bit disjointed. The style of the article didn't feel completely consistent with the middle, didn't feel completely consistent with the end. In this case, what you might do is then reflect on how you would change the workflow if you as a human found that the essays were a bit disjointed. One thing you could do is take the third step and further decompose right DSA into additional steps. So instead of writing DSA on one go, you might instead have it right the first draft and then consider what parts need revision and then revise the draft. And this would be how I as a human might go about it to not just write the final essay at my first attempt, but write the first draft and then read over it, which is another step that is pretty decent at and then based on my own critique of my own essay, I'll revise the draft. So the recap, I started off with direct generation, just one step, decided that it wasn't good enough, and so broke it down into three steps and then maybe decide that still isn't good enough and took one of the steps and further broken it down or decomposed it into three more steps resulting in this more complex richer process for generating an essay. And depending on how satisfied you are with the results of this process, you may choose to even modify this essay generation process further. Let's look at the second example of how to decompose complex tasks into smaller steps. Take the example of responding to basic customer order inquiries. The first step that the human customer service agent might carry out might be to first extract the key information such as who is this email from what do they order and what is the order number and these are things that an arm could do so I could just say let's have a long do that the second step would be to then find the relevant customer records so to write and generate the relevant database queries to pull up the order of whether customer had ordered them when I shipped and so on I think an lm with the ability to call a function to query the order's database, shipper to do that. And then lastly, having pulled up a customer record or the customer order record, I might then write and send a response back to the customer. And I think with the information we pulled up, this third step is also doable within lm if I give the option to call an API to send an email. So this would be another example of taking a toss of responding to customer email and breaking it down into three individual steps, where I can look at each of these steps, and say, yep, I think an LM, one LM with the ability to call a function, to query database or send an email, should be able to do that. Just one last example for the invoice processing. After a PDF invoice has been converted to text, the first step is to plot the required information, the name of the billar, the address, the due date, the amount due, and so on. And now I'm sure we'll do that. And then if I want to check that, The information was extracted and saved in a new database entry, then I think an alarm should be the help me call a function to update the database record. And so to implement this, we'll implement an agentic work flow to carry out basically these two steps. When building a agentic work flows, I think of myself as having a number of building blocks. One important building block would be large-liners models or maybe large multimodal models if I wanted to try to process images or audio as well, and ohms are good at generating text, design what to call, maybe extracting information. For some party specialized tasks, I might also use some other AI models, such as AI model for converting a PDF to text, or for text speech, or for image analysis. In addition to AI models, I also have access to a number of software tools, including different APIs that I can call, to do research, to get maybe real-time weather data, to send emails, check calendar, and so on. And I might also have tools to retrieve information, to pull up data from a database, or to invent RAG, or retrieve augmented generation, where you can look up a large text database and find the most relevant text. Or I might also have tools to execute code. And this is a tool that lets an LM write code, and then run the code on your computer to do a huge range of things. In case of these two seem a bit foreign to you, about it will go through the most important tools in much greater detail in a later module. But I think a lot of my work when I'm building an agent workflow as looking at the work that the person or business is doing and then trying to figure out with these building blocks, how can I sequence these building blocks together in order to carry out the task that I want my system to carry out? And this is why having a good understanding of what building blocks are available, which I hope you have a better sensor by the end of this course as well will allow you to better envision what agentic workflows you can build by combining these building blocks together. So to summarize, one of the key skills in building agentic workflows is to look at a bunch of stuff that maybe someone does and to identify the discrete steps that it could be implemented with. And when I'm looking at the individual discrete steps, one question I'm always asking myself is can this step be implemented with either an LM or with one of the tools such as an API or a function call that I have access to. And in case the answer is no, I'll then often ask myself how would I as a human do this step and is it possible to decompose this further, break this down into even smaller steps that then maybe is more meaningful to implementation with an LM or with one of the software tools that I have. So I hope this gives you a rough sense of how to think about tossedy composition. In case you feel like you don't fully have it yet, don't worry about it, it will go through many more examples in this course and you have a much better understanding of this by the end of this course. But it turns out that as you build agentate workflows, you find that often you build an initial tossedy composition, initial agentate graph, though. And then you want to keep on iterating and improving on it, quite a few times, until it delivers the level of performance that you want. And to drive this improvement process, which is found important for many projects, one of the key skills is to know how to evaluate your agentic workflow. So in the next video, we'll talk about evaluations or emails and just be a key component so you can build. And then also keep on improving your workflows to get the performance that you want. Let's talk about eVals in the next video. I've worked with many different teams on building agentic workflows, and I've found that one of the biggest predictors for whether someone is able to do it really well, dresses be less efficient at it, is whether or not they're able to drive a really disciplined evaluation process. So, your ability to drive eVals for for the authentic workflow makes a huge difference in durability to build them effectively. In this video, we'll take a quick overview of how to build eVals and this is a subject that will actually go into much deeper in a later module in this course. Let's take a look. After building an authentic workflow, like this one for responding to customer order inquiries, it turns out that it's very difficult to know in advance what are the things that could go wrong. And so rather than trying to build evaluations in advance, whatever I recommend is you just look for the outputs and manually look for things that you wish it was doing better. For example, maybe you read a lot of outputs and find that it is unexpectedly mentioning your competitors more than it should. Maybe businesses don't want their agents to mention competitors, because it's just an awkward situation. And if you read some of the outputs, maybe you find it as something says, I'm glad you shot to us when much better than a competitor, Compre Co, or maybe sometimes say, sure, it should be fun. Unlike rival Co, we make returns easy. And you may look at this and go, gee, I really don't want this to mention competitors. This would be the example of a problem that is really hard to anticipate in advance of building this agency workflow. So the best practice is really to build it first and then examine it to figure out where it is not yet satisfactory and then to find ways to evaluate as was improved a system to eliminate the ways that it is still not yet satisfactory. Assuming your business considers it an error or mistake dimension competitors in this way, then as you work on eliminating these competitor dimensions, one way to track progress, we've to add an evaluation or an eval to track how often this error occurs. So if you have a name list of competitors, like comp code, rival code, the other code, then you can actually write code So just search in your own output for how often it mentions these competitors by name and count up as a number, as a fraction of the overall responses, how frequently it mistakenly mentions competitors. One nice thing about the problem of competitor dimensions is is a objective metric, meaning either the competitor was mentioned or not, and for objective criteria, you can write code to check for how often this specific error occurs. But because LMS output free text, they're also gonna be criteria by which you want to evaluate this output that may be more subjective and whereas harder to just write code to open a black and white score. In this case, using a LMM as a judge is a common technique to evaluate the output. So for example, if you're building a research agent to do research on different topics, Then you can use another OM and prompt it to maybe say, assign the following essay quality score between one and five, where one is the worst and five is the best essay. Here I'm using a Python expression to mean your copy pace to generate an essay into this. So you can prompt the OM to read the essay and assign it a quality score. Then I'm asked a research agent to write a number of different research reports. For example, on recent developments in black hole science, or using robots to harvest fruit. And then in this example, maybe the judge OM assigns the essay on black holes a score of three, the essay on robot harvesting a score of four, and as you work on improving your research agent, hopefully you see these scores go up over time. It turns out by the way, that arms are actually not that good at least one to five scale ratings. You can give them a shot, but I personally tend not to use this technique that much myself, But in the later module, you learn some better techniques to have an LM output more accurate scores than asking it to open scores on a one-to-five scale. Although some people will do this maybe in an initial cut as an LMS judge type of e-vowel. Just to give a preview of some of the agentate AI e-vowels to learn about latent scores. You've really heard me talk about how you can write code to evaluate objective criteria, such as didn't mention the competitor or not, or use an LMS judge for more subjective criteria such as what's the quality of this essay. But later, you learn about two major types of evils. One is end to end where you measure the output's quality of the entire agent, as well as component level evils. We might measure the quality of the output of a single step in the agent workflow and turns out that these are useful for driving different positive development process. And one thing I do a lot as well is just examine the intermediate outputs of some of you call this the traces of the LM in order to understand where it is falling short in my expectations and we call this error analysis, where we just read through the intermediate outputs every single step to try to spot opportunities for improvement. And it turns out being able to do eVals and error analysis is a really key skill, so much more to say about this in the fourth module in this course. We're nearly to the end of this first module. But for moving on, as I'm gonna share with you, what I think are the most important design patterns of building agentic workflows. Let's go take a look at that in the next video. Rebuild agentic workflows by taking building blocks and putting them together to sequence out these complex workflows. In this video, I'd like to share with you a few of the key design patterns, which are patterns for how you can think about combining these building blocks into more complex workflows. Let's take a look. I think four key design patterns with building agentic workflows are perfection, who use planning and multi-aging collaboration. Let me briefly go over what they mean, and then we'll actually go through most of these in-depth between the schools as well. The first of the major design patterns is reflection. So I'm a go to an LM agent and ask it to write code and it turns out that an LM might then generate code like this, you know, defines here a Python function to do a certain task. I could then construct a prompt that looks like this. I can say, here's code intended for a certain toss. And then called PPS, whether the arm had just output back into this prompt. And then I'm going to ask it, check the code carefully for correctness, style, and efficiency, and give constructive criticism. And turns out that the same LL model prompted this way, may be able to point out some problems with the code. And if I then take this critique and feed it back to the model to say, looks at this bug, could you change the code to fix it? Then it may actually come over the better version of the code. To give a preview of tool use, if you able to run the code and see where the code fails, then feeding that back to the arm can also cause it to be of the iterate and generate a much better, say, V3 version 3 of the code. So reflection is a common design pattern where you can ask the arm to examine its own outputs, or maybe bring in some external sources of information, such as run the code and see if it generates any error messages and use Nanus feedback to iterate again and come over better version of its output. And this design pattern isn't magic. It does not result in everything working 100% of the time, but sometimes it can be a nice bump in the performance of your system. Now, I've drawn this as it was a single OM that I'm prompting, but to foreshadow multi-agent work those. You can also imagine instead of having the same model of critical self, you can imagine having a critic agent and all that is is an element that's been prompted with instructions like your role as a critique code, his code intended for a task, check the code carefully and so on. And the second critic agent, maybe the point of errors or run unit tests and having to simulate agents where each agent is just an element prompted to take on a certain persona. You don't have them go go back and forth to iterate to get to better output. In addition to reflection pattern, the second important design pattern is tool use, where today, OMs can be given tools, meaning functions that they can call in order to get work done. For example, if you also know what's the best coffee maker according to reviewers, and you give it a web search tool, then it can actually search the internet to find much better answers. Or a code execution tool. If you ask a math question, like if I invest $100 a compound interest, whatever you in, it can then write code and execute code to compute an answer. Today, different developers have given LMS main different tools for everything for math or data analysis to get information by fetching things from the web or for various databases to interface with productivity apps like email calendar and so on as well as to process images and much more. And the ability of an LMS to decide what tools to use, meaning what functions to call, that lets the model get a lot more done. The third of the four design patterns is planning. This is an example from a paper called Hugging GPT in which if you ask a system to please generate an image where a girl is reading a book and pulls the same as a boy in the image, then please describe the new image in a voice. Then a model can automatically decide that to carry the task, a first needs to find a post-determination model to figure out the pose of the boy, then do pose the image, the generic picture of a girl, and image the text, and then finally, text the speech. And so in planning and along the size, what is the sequence of actions it needs to take? In this case, it is a sequence of API calls so that it can then carry out the right sequence of steps in the right order in order to carry out the task. So rather than to develop a hard coding, the sequence of steps in advance, just actually let's see, oh, I'm deciding what are the steps to take. Agents have planned today are harder to control and sell more experimental, but sometimes it can give really delightful results. And then finally, multi-agents work those. Just as a human manager might hire a number of others to work together on a complex project. In some cases, it might make sense for you to hire a set of multiple agents, maybe each of which specializes in a different role and have them work together to accomplish a complex task. The picture you see here on the left is taken from a project called ChatDeath, which is a software framework created by Chen Qian and collaborators. In ChatDeath, multiple agents with different roles, like Chief Executive Officer, Programmer, Tester, Designer, and so on, collaborate together as if they were a virtual software company and can collaboratively complete a range of software development tasks. Let's consider another example. If you want to write a marketing brochure, maybe you think of hiring a team of three people, such as a researcher to do online research, a marketer to write the marketing text, and then finally an editor to edit and publish the text. And so in a similar way, you might consider building a multi-agent workflow in which you have a simulated research agent, a simulated marketer agent, and a simulated editor agent that then come together to carry out this task for you. Multi-agent workflows are more difficult to control, since you don't always know ahead of time what the agents will do, but research has shown that they can result in better outcomes for many complex tasks, including things like writing biographies or deciding on chess moves to make them a game. You learn more about multi-agentic workflows later in this course as well. And so of that, I hope you have a sense of what agentic workflows can do, as well as of whether the key challenges of finding building blocks and putting them together, maybe by these design patterns in order to implement the legitimate work though, and of course, also developing eVALs. You can see how our system is doing and keep on improving on it. In the mix module, I'd like to share a view, a deep dive into the first of these design patterns that is Refection, and you find that is maybe surprisingly simple to implement technique that can give the performance of your system sometimes a very nice bump. So let's go on to the next module to learn about the Refection design pattern. In this module, I'd like to share of you practical tips for building agent AI workflows. I hope that these tips will enable you to be much more effective than the typical developer at building these types of systems. I find that when developing an agent AI system It's difficult to know in advance where will work and where it won't work so well, and thus where you should focus your effort. So very common advice is to try to build even a quick and dirty system to start so you can then try it out and look at it to see where it may not yet be working as well as you wish. Didn't have much more focus efforts to develop it even further. In contrast, I find that it's sometimes less useful to sit around for the too many weeks theorizing and hypothesizing how to build it, it's often better to just build a quick system in a safe, reasonable way that doesn't leak data and kind of do it in a responsible way, but just build something quickly so you can look at it and then use that initial prototype to prioritize and drive further development. Let's start with an example of what might happen after you build a prototype. I want to use as a first example the invoice processing workflow that you've seen previously with a task extract for required fields and then to save it to a database record. After having built such a system, one thing you might do is find a handful of invoices, maybe 10 or 20 invoices, and go through them and just take a look at their output and see what went well and if there were any mistakes. So let's see look through 20 invoices, you find that invoice 1 is fine, the output looks correct For invoice 2, maybe it confused the date to the invoice that is when was invoice issued with the due date to the invoice. And in this task, we want to extract the due date subsequent issue payments on time. So then I might know down in a document or an spreadsheet that for invoice 2, the dates were mixed up. Maybe invoice D was fine, invoice 4 was fine, and so on. But as I go through this example, I find that there are quite a lot of examples where I had mixed up the dates. So it is based on going through a number of examples like this, that in this case, you might conclude that one common error mode is that it is struggling with the dates. In that case, one thing you might consider would be to of course figure out how to improve your system to make an extract due dates better, but also maybe write an e-value to measure the accuracy of which which of this extracting due dates. In comparison, if you had found that it was extracting the billar address incorrectly, you know, maybe you have billars with unusual sounding names, and so maybe it struggles with billars, or especially if you have international billars whose names may not even all be English letters, then you might instead focus on building an e-vow for the billar address. So one of the reasons why building a quick and dirty system and looking at the output is so hopeful, is it even helps you decide what do you want to put the most effort into evaluating? Now, if you've decided that you want to modify your system to improve the accuracy with which it is extracting the due date of the invoice, then to track progress, it might be good idea to create an evaluation and eval to measure the accuracy of data extraction. There are pretty multiple ways one might go about this, but let me share with you how I might go about this. To create a test set or an evaluation set, I might find 10 to 20 invoices and manually write down what is a due date. So maybe one invoice is a due date of August 20th, 2025 that I write it down. It is standard year month date format. And then to make it easy to evaluate in co-later, I would probably write the prompt to the alarm to tell it to always format the due date in this year month date format. And with that, I can then write code to extract out the one day to the alarm as output, which is a due date, because that's the one day we care about. So this is a regular expression, pattern matching four numbers of the year or two for the month or two for the date, and then extract that out. And then I can just write code to test if the extract date is equal to the actual date. That is the ground-driven annotation I had written down. So with an e-vow set of, say, 20 or so invoices, I believe that make changes to see if the percentage of time that it gets the extracted date correct is hopefully going up as I tweak my problems or tweak other parts of my system. So just to summarize what we've seen so far, we've built a system, then look at outputs to discover where it may be behaving in an unsatisfactory way, such as due dates are wrong. Then to drive improvements to this important output, put in place a small e-vow with, say, just 20 examples to help us track progress. And then this lets me go back to two problems, try different algorithms and so on to see if I can move up this metric of due date accuracy. So this is what improving a energetic AI work that will often feel like. Look at the output, see what's wrong. Then if you know how to fix it, just fix it. But if you need a longer process of improving it, then put a place in eVal and use that to drive further development. One other thing to consider is if after working for a while, if you think those 20 examples you had initially on good enough, maybe they don't cover all the cases you want or maybe 20 examples is just too few, then you could always add to the eVal set over time to make sure it better reflects your personal judgments on whether or not the systems performance is sufficiently satisfactory. So it's just one example. For the second example, let's look at building a marketing copy assistant for writing captions for Instagram, where to keep things succinct, let's say a marketing team tells us that they want captions, there are at most 10 words long. So we would have an image of a product, say a pair of sunglasses that we want to market and then have a user query like these rather caption to sell these sunglasses. and then have a OM or a large multimodal model analyze the image and the query and generate a description of the sunglasses. And there are lots of different ways that a marketing copy assistance may go wrong, but let's say that you look at the output and you find that the copy or the text generated mostly sounds okay, but maybe it's just sometimes too long. So for the sunglasses input, generate 17 words. If you get a coffee machine, it's okay, stylish size okay, blue shirt, 14 words, blender, 11 words. So it looks like on this example, the OM is having a hard time adhering to the length guideline. So again, there are lots of things I could have gone wrong with a marketing copy assistant, but if you find that is struggling with the length of the output, they might build an e-vow to track this so that you can make improvements and make sure it's getting better at adhering to the length guideline. So to create an e-vow to measure the text length, what you might do is create a set of test tasks, or marked a pair of sunglasses, a coffee machine, and so on. And maybe create 10 to 20 examples. Then you would run each of them through your system and write code to measure the word counts of the output. So this is Python code to measure the word counts of a piece of text. Then lastly, you would compare the length of the generated text to the 10 word target limit. So if word counts is equal to 10, now I'm correct, plus equals 1. One difference between this and the previous invoice processing example is that there is no per example ground truth. The target is just 10, same for every single example. Where it's in contrast for the invoice processing example, we had to generate a custom target label that is the correct due date of the invoice and we're testing the outputs against that per example ground truth. I know I use a very simple workflow for generating these captions, but these type of emails can be applied to much more complex generation workflows as well. Let me touch on one final example in which we'll revisit the research agents we've been looking at. If you look at the output of the research agents on different input prompts, let's say that when you ask it to write an article on recent breakthroughs in black hole signs, you find that it missed some high profile result that had a loss of news coverage, so this is an unsatisfactory result. Or if you ask it to research renting versus buying a home Seattle or seems to do a good job or robotics for harvesting fruit. Well, it didn't mention a leading equipment company. So based on this evaluation, it looks like sometimes it misses a really important point that a human expert writer would have captured. So then I would create an evil to measure how often it captures the most important points. For example, you might come up with a number of example prompts on black holes, Robotic harvesting and so on, and for each one, come up with, let's say, three to five ghost standard discussion points for each of these topics. Notice that here, we do have a per-example annotation because the ghost standard talking points, that is the most important talking points, they are different for each of these examples. With these down-true annotations, you might then use an LMSG to count how many of the ghost standard talking points were mentioned. And so an example prompt might be to say, determine how many of the five gold standard talking points are present in the provided essay. You have the optional prompt, the essay text, gold standard points, and so on. It have it, return a JSON object with two keys that scores how many of the points zero to five to the score, as well as an explanation. And this allows you to get a score for each prompt in your evaluation set. In this example, I'm using Mr. Judge to count how many of the talking points were mentioned, because there are so many different ways to talk about these talking points. And so a regular expression or a code for simple pattern matching might not work that well, which is why you might use a Mr. Judge and treat this as a slightly more subjective evaluation for whether or not say event horizons were adequately mentioned. So this is your third example of how you might build eVals. In order to think about how to build eVals for your application, the eVals you build will often have to reflect whatever you see or your word about going wrong in your application. And it turns out that broadly, there are two axes of evaluation. On the top axis is the way you evaluate the output. In some cases, you evaluate it by writing code with objective evals and sometimes you use an OM as a judge for more subjective evals. On the other axis is whether you have a per example ground truth or not. So for checking invoice data extraction, we were writing code to evaluate if we got the actual date and that had a per example ground truth because each invoice has a different actual date. But in an example where we checked marketing copy length, every example had a length limit of 10, and so there was no per example ground truth for that problem. In contrast, for counting gold standard talking points, there was a per example ground truth because each article had different important talking points. But we used an element as a judge to read the essay to see if those topics were adequately mentioned because there's so many different ways to mention the talking points. And the loss of the four origins would be a messageage with no per example ground truth. And one place where we saw that was if you're grading charts with a rubric, this is when we're looking at visualizing the coffee machine sales. And if you ask it to grade a chart according to a rubric, such as whether it's clear access labels and so on, there is the same rubric for every chart. And that would be using an elementsageage, but without a per example ground truth. So I find this 2x2 grid as maybe a useful way to think about the different types of e-veils you might construct for your application. And by the way, these are sometimes also called n-to-n e-veils because one n is the input n, such as the user query problem, and the other n is the final output. And so all of these are e-veils for the entire n-to-n systems performance. So just to wrap up this video, I'd like to share a few final tips for designing n-to-n e-veils. First, quick and dirty e-vows is fine to get started. I feel like I see quite a lot of teams that are almost paralyzed because they think building e-vows is this massive multi-week effort and so they take longer than would be ideal to get started. But I think just as you iterate on an agentic rough load, make it better over time, you should plan to iterate on your e-vows as well so if you put in place 10, 15, 20 examples as your first cut the e-vails and write some code or try prompting an armistice. Just do something to start to get some metrics. Then that can compliment the human eye at looking at the output. And then it's a blend of the two they can drive your decision making. And as the e-vails will come more sophisticated over time, you can then shift more and more of your trust to the metric based e-vails rather than needing to read over your hundreds of outputs every time you tweak a prompt somewhere. And as you go through this process, you likely find ways to keep on improving your eVALs as well. So, if you had 20 examples to start, you may then run into places where your eVALs fail to capture your judgment about what system is better. So maybe you update the system and you look at it and you feel like this got to work much better, but your eVAL fails to show the new system achieving a higher score. If that's the case, that's often an opportunity to go maybe collect the larger eVAL set or change the way you evaluate the output to make it correspond better to your judgment as to what system is actually working better. And so the eVALs will get better over time. And lastly, in terms of using eVALs to gain inspiration as to what to work on next, a lot of Asian workflows are being used to automate tasks that say humans can do. And so I find for such applications a lot for places where the performance is worse than that of an expert human, and that often gives me inspiration for where to focus my efforts, or whether the types of examples that I made when they did my agentic work, though, to work better than it is currently. So I hope that after you build that quick and dirty system, you'll think about when it will make sense to start putting in some e-vals to track the potentially problematic aspects of the system, and that that will then help you drive improvements of the system. In addition to helping you drive improvements, it turns out that there's a method of e-vows that helps you hone in of your entire agentic system, what are the components most worth focusing your attention on? Because agentic systems often have many pieces, so which piece is going to be most productive for you to spend time working to improve? Turns out being able to do this well is a really important skill for driving efficient development of agentic workflows. In the next video, I'd like to deep dive into this topic. So let's go on to the next video. Let's see you've built an Egentic work, though. And if it's not yet working as well as you wish. And this happens to be all the time, by the way, I'll often build a quick and dirty system and it doesn't do as well as I wish it would. The question is, where do you focus your efforts to make it better? It turns out Egentic work flows have many different components and working on some of the components could be much more fruitful than working on some other components. So your skill at choosing where to focus your efforts makes a huge difference in the speed with which you can make improvements to your system. And I found that one of the biggest predictors for how efficient and how good the team is, is whether or not they're able to drive a disciplined error analysis process to tell you where to focus your efforts. So this is an important skill. Let's take a look at how to carotter analysis. In the research ancient example, we had carotter analysis in the previous video and we saw that it was often missing key points in a human expert would have made inviting essays on certain topics. So now if you spotted this problem that is sometimes missing key points, how do you know what to work on? It turns out that of the many different steps in this work, though, almost any of them could have contributed to this problem of missing key points. For example, maybe the first LM was generating search terms that weren't great. So it was just searching for the wrong things and did not discover the right articles. Or maybe use the web search engine that just wasn't very good. There are multiple web search engines out there. In fact, there are actually quite a few that I tend to use for my own based applications and some are better than others. Or maybe a web search was just fine, but when we gave the list of of web search results to an LM. Maybe it didn't do a good job choosing the best handful to download. Maybe web fetch has fear problems, in this case, assuming you can fetch web pages accurately. But after dumping the web pages in LM, maybe the LM is ignoring some of the points in the documents we had fetched. So it turns out that there are teams that will sometimes look at this and go by gut to pick one of these components to work on. And sometimes that works. And sometimes that leads to many months of work with very low progress in the overall performance of the system. So rather than going by gut to decide which of these many components to work on, I think it's much better to carry out an error analysis to better understand each step in the workflow. And in particular, I'll often examine the traces and that means the intermediate output after each step. In order to understand which components performance is subpar, meaning, say, much worse than what a human expert would do, because that points to where there may be room for security and improvement. Let's look at an example. If we ask the research agent to read an essay about recent news in black hole signs, maybe the OMO puts search shows like these, search for black hole theories on sign, event horizon, telescope, radio, and so on. And I would then have a human expert look at these and see are these reasonable web search terms for writing about recent discoveries in black hole signs. And maybe in this case, an expert says, these web searches look okay, they're all pretty similar to what I would do as a human. Then I look at the opus of the web search and look at the URL's returned. So web search would return many different web pages and maybe one web page returns is that an elementary school student where it claims to crack a 30 year old backhoe mystery from astro kid news. And this doesn't look like the most rigorous sheer view article. And maybe examining all of the articles that web search returns causes you to conclude that it's returning too many blog or popular press types of articles and not enough scientific articles to write a research report of the quality that you are looking for. It'd be good to just look through the outputs of the other steps as well. Maybe they all find the best five sources you can, and then with AstroKit, new space, about 2,000 space fun news and so on. And it is by looking at these intermediate outputs that you can then try to get a sense of the quality of the output of each of these steps. To do some terminology, the overall set of outputs of all of the intermediate steps is often called the trace of a run of this agent. And then some terminology you see in other sources as well is the output of a single step is sometimes called a span. This is terminology from the computer observability literature, where people try to figure out what computers are doing. And in this course, I use the word trace quite a bit. I'll use the word span a little bit less, but you may see both of these terms on the internet. So by reading the traces, you start to get an informal sense of where might be the most problematic components. In order to do this the most systematic way, it turns out to be useful to focus your attention on the cases that the system is doing poorly on. Maybe it writes some essays just fine and the output is completely satisfactory. So I would put those aside and try to come up with a set of examples where for whatever reason, the final output of your research agent is not quite satisfactory and just focus on those examples. So this is one of the reasons we call error analysis because we want to focus on the cases where the system made an error. And we want to go through to figure out which components were most responsible for the error in the research agent output. In order to make this more rigorous, rather than reading and getting an informal sense, you might actually build out a spreadsheet to more explicitly count up where the errors are. And by error, I mean, when a step outputs something that performs second-classly worse than maybe what a human expert would have given a similar input as that component. So I'll often do this myself in a spreadsheet. So I'm going to build a spreadsheet like this. And so for the first query, we are looking at recent developments in black hole science. And I see that the search results has too many blog posts, popular prize articles, not enough scientific papers. And then based on this, it is true that the five best sources aren't great. But here, I won't say that the five best sources did a bad job because if the inputs to deal on for selecting the five best sources, where all non-vigorous articles, then they can't blame this picking the five best sources for not picking better articles because it did the best it could have, or what nearly as well as any human might have given the same selection to choose from. And then you might go through this for different prompts. Renting versus buying in Seattle, maybe it missed a well-known blog, robotics for harvesting fruit, maybe in this case we look at and say, oh, the search terms are too generic and the search results also weren't good and so on. And then based on this, I would count up in my spreadsheet how often I observe errors in the different components. So in this example, to satisfy for the search terms, 5% of the time, but I'm to satisfy for the search results 45% of the time. And if I actually see this, I might just take a careful look at the search terms to make sure that the search terms really were okay and that poor choice of search terms were not what led to poor search results. But I really think the search terms are fine but the search results are not. Then I would take a careful look at the web search engine I'm using and if there are any parameters to make it bring back more relevant or higher quality results. There's this type of analysis that tells me in this example that maybe I really should focus my attention on fixing the search results and not on the other components of this agentic workflow. So to wrap up this video, I find that it's useful to develop a habit of looking at traces after building the agentic workflow. Go ahead and look at the intermediate outputs to get a feel for what it's actually doing at every step. so they can better understand if different steps are performing better or worse. And a more systematic error analysis, maybe done with a spreadsheet, can let you gather statistics or count up which component performs poorly most frequently. And so by looking at what components are doing poorly as well as where I have ideas for efficiently improving different components, then that will let you prioritize what component to work on. So maybe a component is problematic, but I don't have any ideas to improving it. so that will suggest maybe not prioritizing that as high, but if there is a component that is generating a lot of errors and if I have ideas for how to improve that, then that would be a good reason to prioritize working on that component. And I just want to emphasize that error analysis is a very helpful output for you to decide where to focus your efforts. Because in any complex system, they're just so things you could work on is too easy to pick something to work on and work on it for weeks or even months only discover later that that did not result in improve performance your overall system. And so using error analysis to decide where to focus your effort turns out to be incredibly useful for improving your efficiency. In this video, we went over error analysis with the research agent example. But I think error analysis is such an important topic. I want to go over some additional examples with you. So let's go on to the next video where we'll look at more examples of error analysis. An agentic workflow may comprise many different types of components, and so your tools to improving different components will be pretty different. But I'd like to share with you some general patterns I've seen. Some components your agentic workflow will be non-OM based, so it may be something like a web search engine or a text retrieval component, if that's part of your rack or retrieval of a mental engineering system, some people call execution, or maybe you're separately trained machine learning model or maybe one street recognition or detecting people and pictures and so on. So sometimes these non-elon-based components will have parameters or hyper parameters that you can do. So for web search, you can tune things like the number of results or maybe the day range that you also web search engine to consider. For a rat tax retrieval components, you might change the similarity threshold that determines what pieces of taxic considers similar or the chunk size often react systems will take testing and chop it up into small bit chunks for matching. So the main hyperparameters you could use, or for people detection, you might change the detection threshold. So how sensitive it is, and how likely it is to declare this found a person, and this would trade out the false positives and false negatives. If they follow all the details of the hyperparameters I just discussed, don't worry about it, the details aren't that important, but often the components were parameters that you can tune. And then of course, you can also try to replace the component. I do this a lot in my agentic workflows where I'll swap in different rack search engines or swap in different rack providers and so on. Just to see if some other provider might work better. Because of the diversity of non-LM-based components, I think the techniques for how to improve it will be more diverse and dependent on exactly what that component is doing. For an LM-based components, here are some options you might consider. One would be to try try to improve your prompts. So maybe try to add more explicit instructions or if you know what few short prompting is that refers to adding one or more concrete examples of an example of an input and a design output. And so few short prompting, which you can learn about from some deep-land eye short courses as well, is a technique that can give your LM some examples to hopefully help it get better performing outputs written. Or you can also try a different So with AI Suite or other tools, it could be pretty easy to try multiple LMS and they can use eVals to pick the best model for your application. Sometimes, if a single step is too complex for one arm to do, you can consider if you want to decompose the task into smaller steps or maybe decompose it into a generation step and then the refaction step. But more generally, if you have instructions that are very complex all within one step, maybe a single arm has a hard time following all those instructions and if you break the task down to smaller steps, that may be easier for say two or three calls in on to carry out accurately. And lastly, something to try when the other methods I'm working well enough is to consider fine tuning a model. This tends to be quite a bit more complex than the other options. So it can be quite a bit more expensive as well in terms of developer time to implement. if you have some data that you can use to fine tune an LOM on, that could give you much better performance than prompting alone. So I tend not to fine tune a model until I've really exhausted the other options because fine tuning tends to be quite complex, but for applications where after trying everything else, if I'm still at, you know, say 90% performance or 95% performance and I really need to e-code those last few percentage points of improvement and sometimes fine tuning my own custom model is a great technique to use. I tend to do this only on the more mature applications because of how costly it is. It turns out that when you're trying to choose an arm to use, one thing that's very hopeful for you as a developer is if you have good intuitions about how intelligent or how capable different large language models are. One thing you do is just try a lot of models and see what works best. But I find that as a work of different models, I start to hone intuitions about which models were best for what types of tasks. And we hone those intuitions. You can be more efficient as well in writing good prompts for the model as well as choosing good models for your tasks. So I'd like to share with you some thoughts on how to hone your intuition on what models will work well for your application. Let's illustrate this with an example of using an LOM to follow instructions to remove what to redact PII or personally identifiable information. so you're allowed to remove private sensitive information. For example, if you are using an LM to summarize customer calls, then maybe one summary is on July 14th, 23rd, Jessica Alvarez with a social security number, and a certain address, service support ticket, and so on. So this piece of text has a lot of sensitive, personally identifiable information. Now, let's see, we want to remove all PII from such summaries because we want to use the data for downstream statistical analysis of what customers are calling about. And to prevent customer information, we want to strip out that PII before we do that downstream statistical analysis. So you might prompt an OM with instructions to identify all cases of PII in the text below and then return to redacted texts with redacted colon and so on. It turns out that the larger frontier models tend to be much better at following instructions, whereas the smaller models tend to be pretty good at answering simple factual questions, but I just know that it's good at following instructions. If you run this prompt on the smaller model, the openway longer 3.1 model with able-in parameters, then it may generate an output like this. It says, the Identify PII is such a security number and address, and then it redacts it as follows, and so on. And that makes a few errors. It didn't follow the instructions properly. It showed the list then redacted the text, then return another list, which it wasn't supposed to, and in this list of PII and missed the name, and then I think it'll also then redact party the agents. So details are not important, but didn't follow these instructions perfectly, and maybe it missed a little bit of PII. In contrast, if you use a more intelligent model, one that's better at following instructions, you may get a better result like this, whereas actually correctly listed all the PII and correctly redacted all of the PII. And so I find that as different earn providers specialize on different tasks, different models really are better for different tasks. Some are better coding, some are better for the instructions, some are better at certain niche types of facts, and we can hold your intuition for what models are more or less intelligence and what other instructions are more or less able to follow, then you'll be able to make better decisions as to what models to use. So to share a couple tips on how to do this, I encourage you to play your different models often. So whenever I just a new model release, I'll often go try it out and try out different queries on it. Both close-weight proprietary models as well as open-weight models. And I find that sometimes having a personal set of events might also be hopeful where there's a set of things you ask a lot of different models that might help you calibrate how well they do on different types of toss. One of the things that I do a lot that I hope will be useful to you is I spend a lot of time reading other people's prompts. So sometimes people will publish their prompts on the internet and often go and read them to understand what best practices in prompting looks like or often chat to my friends and various companies including some of the frontier model companies and go and share my prompts with them, take a look at how they prompt. And sometimes I'll also go to open-source packages, written by people I really respect, and download the open source package and take through that open source package to find the prompts the authors have written, in order to read it, in order to hold my intuition about how the right good prompts. This one technique that I encourage you to consider is by reading lots of other people's prompts that will help you get better at writing prompts yourself, and I certainly do this a lot I encourage you to do so too and this will hold your intuition about what types of instructions models are good at following and when to say certain things to different models. In addition to playing with models and meeting other people's prompts, if you try out lots of different models in your agentic workflows, that also lets you hold your intuition. So you see which models were the best worst types of tasks and either looking at traces to get it in a formal sense or looking at either component-wise or end-and-evales can help you assess how well different models are working for different parts of workflow. And then you start a whole new intuition about not just performance but maybe also price and speed trade-offs for the use of different models. And one of the reasons I tend to develop my agentic workflows of AI suite is because it then makes it easy to quickly swap out and try out different models. And this makes me more efficient in terms of trying out and assessing which models were best for my workflow. So we've talked a lot about how to improve the performance of different components to hopefully improve the overall performance of your end-to-end system. In addition to improving the quality of the output, one of the things you might want to do in your workflows is to optimize the latency as well as cost. I find that for a lot of teams when you start developing, usually the number one thing to worry about is just are the outputs sufficiently high quality. But then when the system is working well and you put in the production, then it's often valued to make it run faster as well as run at lower cost as well. So in the next video, let's take a look at some ideas for improving cost and latency for agentic workloads. When building agentic workflows, our often advised teams to focus on getting high quality outputs, and to optimize cost and latency only later. It's not that cost and latency don't matter, but I think getting the performance of the output quality to be high is usually the hardest part. And then only when it's really working, then maybe focus on the other things. One thing that's happened to me a few times was my team built an agentic work, though, and we shifted to users, and then we're fortunate enough to have so many users use it that the cost actually became a problem. And then we had to, you know, trample to bring the cost back down. But that's a good problem to have. So I tend to worry about costs usually lost. Not that I ignore it completely, but it's just lower down my list of things to worry about. And so we've so many users that really need to bring the cost down per user. And then latency, I tend to worry a bit about it, but again, not as much as just making sure the output quality is high. But when you do get there, it will will be useful to have tools to optimize latency and cost. Let's take a look at some ideas on how to do that. If you want to optimize the latency of an agente work, though, one thing I will often do is then benchmark or time the workflow. So in this research agent, it takes a number of steps. And if I were to time each of the steps, maybe it takes seven seconds to generate the search terms. Web search takes five seconds, this takes three seconds, this takes 11 seconds, and then writing the final essay takes 18 seconds on average. And it is then by looking at this overall timeline that I can get a sense of which components have the most room for making faster. In this example, there may be multiple things you could try. If you haven't already taken advantage of parallelism for some steps, like maybe what fetch, maybe it's worth considering doing some of these operations in parallel. Or if you find that some of the LMS sets are taking too long, so if this first set takes seven seconds, this last LMS set takes 18 seconds, I might also consider trying a smaller, maybe slightly less intelligent model to see if it still works well enough for that, or if I can find a faster LMS provider. The loss of APIs online for different LMS interfaces and some companies have specialized hardware to allow them to serve certain LMS much faster. So sometimes we're trying different LMS providers to see which ones can return tokens the fastest. But at least doing this type of timing analysis can give you a sense of which components to focus on in terms of reducing latency. In terms of optimizing costs, a similar calculation where you calculate the cost of each step would also let you benchmark and decide which steps to focus on. Many owned providers charge per token based on the input and output length. Many API providers charge per API call And the computational steps may have different cost based on how you pay for server capacity and how much the service costs. And so for a process like this, you might decide, in this example, that the tokens for this step on average cost 0.04 cents. Each web search API may be cost 1.6 cents. tokens cost this much, API cost cost this much, pdf to text cost this much, tokens for the final essay generation cost this much. And this would maybe, again, give you a sense are there cheaper components you could use or cheaper ohms you could use to see where the biggest opportunities for optimizing costs. And I found that these benchmarking exercises can be very clarifying and sometimes they'll clearly tell me that certain components are just not worth worrying about because they're not that material or contributor to either cost or to latency. So I find that when either cost or latency becomes an issue by simply measuring the cost and and or latency of each step that often gives you a basis with which to decide which components to focus on optimizing. So we're nearly at the end of this module. I know we've covered a lot, but thank you for sticking with me. Let's go on to the final video of this module to wrap up. We've gone through a lot of tips for driving a discipline efficient process for building agent AI systems. I know the wrap up by sharing with you what it feels like to be going through this process. When I'm building these workflows, I feel like there are two major activities I'm often spending time on. One is building, so writing software, trying to write code to improve my system, and the second, which sometimes doesn't feel like progress, but I think it's equally important is analysis, to help me decide where to focus my build at the snakes, and I often go back and forth between building and analyzing, including things like error analysis. So for example, when building a new agent at workflow, are often started by quickly building an end-to-end system, maybe even a quick and dirty implementation. And this lets me then start to examine the final outputs of the end-to-end system, or also read through traces to get a sense of where it's doing well, where it's doing poorly. Based on even just looking at traces, sometimes this will give me a gut sense of which individual components I might want to improve, and so I might go to some individual components or keep tuning the overall end-to-end system. As my system starts to mature a little bit more, then beyond just manually examining a few outputs and reading through tracers, I might start to build eVals and have a small data set. Maybe just 10, 20 examples to compute metrics at least on end-to-end performance. And this then further helps me have a more refined perspective on how to improve the end-to-end system or how to improve individual components. As a matrix even further, my analysis then becomes maybe even more disciplined where I'll start to do error analysis and look through the components and try to count up how frequently individual components led to subpar outputs. And this more rigorous analysis than let's maybe even more focus in deciding what components to work on next or inspire ideas for improving your overall internal system. And then eventually when it's even more mature to drive more efficient improvements at the component level, that's when I might also build component level evals. And so the workflow of building an agentic system often goes back and forth. It's not a linear process. We sometimes tune the intern system then do some error analysis, then improve a component for a bit, then tune the component level e-vails. And I tend to bounce back and forth between these two types of techniques. And when I see less experience seems often due is spend a lot of time building and probably much less time analyzing with error analysis, building e-vails and so on. That would be ideal because it's this analysis helps you really focus where to spend your time building. And just one more tip, there are actually quite a few tools out there to hope with monitoring traces, logging runtime, computing costs, and so on. And those tools can be helpful. I sometimes use a few of them and quite a few of deventized short horse partners offer those tools and they do work well. I find it for agentic workflows I end up working on. Most agentic workflows are pretty custom and so I end up building pretty custom e-vails myself because I want to capture the things that work incorrectly with my system. So even though I do use some of those tools, I also end up building a lot of custom e-vails that are well fit to my specific application and issues I see with it. So thanks a second of me this far to the end of the fourth of five modules. If you're able to implement Even a fraction of the ideas from this module, I think you'd be more ahead of the vast majority of developers in terms of your sophistication and implementing agentic workflows. Hope you found these materials useful and I look forward to seeing you in the final module. We'll talk about some more advanced design patterns that building highly autonomous agents. I'll see you in the last module of this course. Welcome to this final module where you learn about design patterns that lets you build highly autonomous agents where you don't need to hide code in advance the sequence of steps to take. They can be more flexible and decide for itself what steps it wants to take to accomplish a task. We'll talk about the planning design pattern and then later in this module how to build multi-agent systems. Let's dive And suppose you run a Sunday glasses retail store and have information on what sunglasses are in your inventory stored in a database. You will want a customer service agent to get answered questions like, do you have any round sunglasses in stock or under $100? This is a fairly complex query because you have to look through the product descriptions to see what sunglasses are around, then look at what is in stock and finally see what's under 100 dollars in order to tell the customer, yes we have classic sign glasses. So how do you build an agent to answer a broad range of customer queries like this and many others? In order to do so, we're going to give the RM a set of tools to let it get item descriptions such as look up of different glasses around, check inventory, maybe process item returns which is not needed for this query, but we need it for other queries, get item price, check pass transactions, process item sale, and so on. In order to let an LM figure out what's the right sequence of tools to use to respond to the customer request, you might then write a prompt like this. You have access to the following tools, and it gives the description of each of the say six tools or even more tools that the LM has. And to then tell it to return a step-by-step plan to carry out the uses request. In this case, to answer this particular query, a reasonable plan that an LMI output might be to first use get item descriptions, to check the different descriptions to find a round sign glasses, and then use check inventory to see their install and use get item price to see if the install results are less than $100. After an LMI outputs this plan with three steps. What we can do is then take the step one text that is this text written here in red and pause that to an LM, maybe a additional context about whether the tools with your user query or additional background context and toss an LM to carry out step one. And in this case, hopefully the alarm will choose to call the get item descriptions to get the appropriate descriptions of items. And the output of that first step can let it select which are the round sun glasses. And that output of step one is then passed together with the step two instructions. That would be these instructions that I have here in blue to an LM to then execute the second step of the plan. Hopefully it will then take the two pairs of round sun glasses we found on the previous slide and check the inventory and the output of that second step is then used to another LM call where you have the output of the second step as well as the instructions of what to do for step three. pass the arm to have it get the item price. And finally, this output is fed back to them one last time to generate the final answer for the user. In this slide, I've simplified a lot of details a little bit. The actual plan to be written by the OM is more detailed than these simple one line instructions, but the basic workflow is to have an LM write out multiple separable plan and then task it to execute each step of the plan in turn with some appropriate surrounding context about what is the task, what are the tools available, and so on. And the exciting thing about using an album to plan this way is that we did not have to decide in advance what is the sequence in which to call tools in order to answer a fairly complex customer request. If a customer were to make a different request, such as, I would like to return the gold frame glasses that I had purchased but not the metal frame ones, then you can imagine an NOM similarly being able to come up with a different plan to figure out based on what they had purchased previously, which glasses they had bought based on get item descriptions with a gold frame ones they want to return and then maybe call process item return. So with an agent that can plan like this, it can carry out a much wider range of tasks that can require calling many different tools and many different orders. One more example of planning, let's take a look at an email assistant. If you want to be the tell your assistant, So please reply to that email invitation from Bob in New York, Tom attend and archive his email. Then an email assistance may be given to us like this, to search email, move an email to leave an email and send an email. And you might write a system problem saying you have access to falling to us. And again, please return the step by step plan. In this case, maybe the alarm will say the steps for this are to use search email to find the email from Bob that mentioned dinner and New York. And then generate and send an email to confirm attendance and then Then it lost the move that email to the archive folder. Given this plan, which looks as reasonable one, you would then again toss an OM step-by-step to carry out this plan. So the text from the first step, shown here in red, would be fed to the OM with additional background context and hopefully a trigger search email, then the output of that can be given to an OM again with the step two instructions to send a proper response. And finally, assuming the email was sent successfully, you can take that output and have the um, excuse the third step of moving the email from Bob into the archive folder. The planning design pattern is already used successfully in many highly agentic coding systems, where if you ask it to write a piece of software to build some fairly complex application, it might actually come from a plan to build this component, build this component, build this component to almost former checklist and then do those steps one at a time to build decently complex piece of software. For many other applications, the use of planning is still maybe more experimental, it's not in very widespread use. And one of the challenges of planning is it makes the system sometimes a little bit harder to control because you as a developer, you don't really know at runtime what plan it will come up with. And so I think outside high the agentech coding systems where it actually works really well, adoption of planning is still growing in other sectors, but it's an exciting technology and I think it will keep getting better and we'll see it in one more applications. The cool thing about building agents that can plan for themselves is you don't need to hard code an advance the exact sequence of steps and now it may take to carry out a complex task. Now I know that in this video I've gone over the The planning process is at a fairly high level, with it all putting a list of steps and then tasking on an LM to carry out the steps of the plan one step at a time. But how does this actually work? In the next video, we'll take a deeper dive to look further into the guts of what these plans actually look like and how the strings together to have an LM plan and execute a plan for you. Let's take a look at that in the next video. In this video, we'll look in detail at how the prompt and LM to generate a plan and how to read, interpret, and execute that plan. Let's dive in. This is a plan that you saw in the previous video for the customer service agents. And I have presented this plan at a high level using simple text descriptions. Let's take a look at how you can get an arm to write very clear plans that go a little bit beyond these simple high level text descriptions. It turns out that many developers will ask an arm to format the plan it once executed in JSON format. Because this allows downstream code to parse what exactly are the steps of the plan in the relatively clear and unambiguous ways. And all of the leading alums are pretty good at generating JSON outputs at this point. So the system prompt might say something like this. You have access to finding tools, just run a tool, and then create a step-by-step plan in JSON format. And you might describe the JSON format in enough detail with a goal of getting it to output a plan like that shown here on the right. So in this JSON output, it creates a list where the first list item has clear keys and values that say the step one of the plan has following description and it should use the following tool with the following arguments posted at tool. Then after that, step two of the plan is to carry this task and then use this tool and so on. So this JSON format as opposed to writing the plan in English allows downstream code to more clearly pause all exactly what are the steps of the plan so that it can be reliably executed one step at a time. Instead of Jason, I also see some developers use XML where you can use XML delimitial to use XML tags to clearly specify what are the steps of the plan and what step number it is. Some developers, I feel like fewer developers will use markdown, which is just sometimes slightly more ambiguous in terms of how we pause it. And I think plaintext is maybe the least reliable of these options. But I think either JSON, which I'm showing here, or XML would be good options for how to ask the OM to format a plan unambiguously. So that's it. By opening plans in JSON, you can then pause it and have downstream workflows execute different steps of the plan more systematically. Now, in terms of getting owns the plan, it turns out there's one other really neat idea that lets an arm output very complex plans and get them executed reliably. And that's the arm right code and to have code express the plan. Let's take a look at this in the next video. We'll talk a lot about how to build a single agent to complete to also you. In a multi agent or multi agent workflow, we instead have a collection of multiple agents collaborate to do things for you. When some people hear for the first time about multi-agent systems, they wonder, why do I need multiple agents? It's just the same LLM that I'm prompting over and over or it was just one computer. Why do I need multiple agents? I find that one useful analogy is, even though I may do things on a single computer, we do decompose work in a single computer into maybe multiple processes or multiple threads. And as a developer, thinking even those one CPU on a computer say, thinking about how to take work and decompose it into multiple processes and multi-computer programs to run, that makes it easier for me as a developer to write code. And in a similar way too, if you have a complex task to carry out, sometimes instead of thinking about how to hire one person to do it for you, you might think about hiring a team of a few people to do different pieces of the toss for you, and so in practice, I found that for many developers of agentic systems having this mental framework of not asking what's the one person I'm hired to do something, then said, what makes sense? The higher people with three or four different roles to do this overall toss for me, that helps give another way to take a complex thing and decompose into subtoss and to build for those individual subtoss one of the time. Let's take Take a look at some examples of how this works. Take the task of creating marketing assets. Say you want to market sunglasses, can you come up with a marketing brochure for that? You might need a research on your team to look at trends and sunglasses and what competitors are offering. You might also have a graphic designer on your team to render charts or nice looking graphics of your sunglasses. And then also a writer to take the research, take the graphic assets and pull it all together into a nice looking brochure. To write a research article, you might want a researcher to do online research, a statistician to calculate statistics, a lead writer, and an editor to come with a polish report. Or to prepare a legal case, real law firms will often have associates, paralegals, maybe an investigator, and we naturally, because of the way human teams do work, can think of different ways that complex tasks can be broken down into different individuals with different roles. So these are examples of when a complex task we're already naturally decomposed into sub-tars that different people of different skills can carry out. Take the example of creating marketing assets. Look into detail into whether researcher, graphic designer, and writer might do. A researcher might have the task of analyzing market trends and research in competitors. And when designing the research agents, one question to keep in mind is, what are the tools that the researcher may need in order to come up with a research report on market trends and what competitors are doing? So, one natural tool that a agentic researcher might need to use would be a web search. Just as a human researcher asked to do these tasks, might need to search online in order to come up with their report. Or for a graphic designer agents, they might be tasked with creating visualizations and artwork. And so what are the tools that an agente software graphic designer might need? Well, they may need an image generation and manipulation APIs, or maybe, similar to what you saw with the coffee machine example, maybe it needs code execution to generate charts. And then lastly, the writer has transformed the research in the report text and marketing copy. And in this case, they don't need any tools other than what an album can already do to generate text. In this in the next video, I'm going to use these purple boxes to denote an agent. And the way you build individual agents is by prompting an LOM to play the role of a researcher or a graphic designer or writer depending on which agent it is part of. So for example, for the research agents, you might prompt it to say, you are a research agent, expedited analyzing market trends in competitors, carry out online research to analyze market trends for the sunglasses product and give us some reasonable of what competitors are doing. So that would allow you to build a research agent. And similarly, by prompting an LM to act as a graphic designer with your appropriate tools and to act as a writer, that's how you can build a graphic designer as well as a writer agent. Having built these three agents, One way to have them work together to generate your final report would be to use a simple linear audit workflow or a linear plan in this case. So if you want to create a summer marketing campaign for sunglasses, you might give that prompt to the research agents, the research agent, then writes a report that says here are the sunglasses trends in competitive offerings. This research report can then be fed to the graphic designer that looks at the data the research has found and creates a few data visualizations and artwork options, all these assets can then be passed to the writer that then takes the research and the graphic output and writes the final marketing brochure. The advantage of building a multi-agent workflow in this case is when designing a researcher or a graphic designer or writer, you can focus on one thing at a time. So I can spend some time building maybe the best graphic designer agent I can, while maybe my My collaborators are building research agents and write agents, and then again, we string it all together to come up with this multi-agent system. And in some cases, I'm seeing developers start to reuse some agents as well. So having built a graphic designer for marketing brochures, maybe I'll think about if it can build a more general graphic designer, they can help me write marketing brochures as well as social media posts, as well as help me illustrate online web pages. So by coming up with whether the agents you might hire to do a task, and this will sometimes correspond to who are the types of human employees you might hire to do a task, you can come up with a workflow like this, with maybe even building agents that you could choose to reuse in other applications as well. Now what you see here is a linear plan, where one agent the researcher does is work, then the graphic designer and then the writer. With agents, you can also, as an alternative to a linear plan, you can also have agents interactive each other in more complex ways. Let me illustrate an example of planning using multiple agents. So previously, you saw how we may give an arm a set of tools that we can call to carry a different toss. In what I want to show you, we will instead give an arm the option to call on different agents to ask the different agents to help complete different toss. So in detail, you might write a prompt, like your marketing manager has a following team of agents to work with, and then give a description of the agents. And this is very much similar to what we're doing with planning and using tools, except the tools the green boxes are replaced with agents, these purple boxes that the owner can call on. And then we'll also return the step-by-step plan to carry out the user's request. And in this case, the owner may ask the researcher to research current sunglasses trends in a report back then it'll also graph your designer to create the images and then report back then ask the writer to create a report and then maybe they'll choose to review or reflect on and improve the report one final time. In executing this plan, you would then take the set one text of the researcher, carry out research, then pass it to the graphic designer, pass it to the writer, and then maybe do one final reflection step. And then you be done. One interesting view of this workflow is as if you have these three agents up here, but this arm on the left is actually like a fourth agent. There's a marketing manager, that is a manager of a marketing team, that is setting direction and then delegating tasks to the research on the graphic designer and the writer agents. So this becomes actually a collection of four agents for marketing manager agent coordinating the work of the researcher, the graphic designer and the writer. In this video, So you saw two communication patterns. One was a linear one where your agents took actions one at a time until you got to the end. And the second had a marketing manager coordinating the activity of a few other agents. It turns out that one of the key design decisions you may end up having to make when building multi-agentic systems is what is the communication pattern between your different agents. This is an area of hard research and there are multiple patterns emerging. In the next video, I want to show you what are some of the most common communication patterns for getting your agents to work with each other. Let's go see that in the next video. When you have a team of people working together, the patterns by which they communicate can be quite complex. And in fact, designing an organizational chart is actually pretty complex to try to figure out what's the best way for people to communicate, to collaborate. It turns out, designing communication patterns for multi-agent systems is also quite complex. But let me show you some of the most common design patterns I see used by different teams today. In a marketing team with a linear plan where first the researcher worked in a graphic designer, then a writer, the communication pattern was linear. The researcher would communicate with a graphic designer and in both the research and a graphic designer, maybe possibly outputs the writer and so there's a very linear communication pattern. This is one of the two most common communication plans that I see being used today. The second of the two most common communication plans would be similar to what you saw in this example with planning using multiple agents, where there is a manager that communicates with a number of team members and coordinates their work. So in this example, the marketing manager decides to call on the researcher to do some work, then if you think of the marketing manager as getting the report back and then sending to the graphic designer, getting a report back and sending the writer, this would be a hierarchical communication pattern. If you're actually implementing a hierarchical communication pattern, you'll probably be simpler to have the researcher pass the report back to the marketing manager rather than the researcher pass the results directly to the graphic designer and to the writer. But so this type of hierarchy is also a pretty common way to plan the communication patterns. we have one manager coordinating the work of a number of other agents. And just to share of you some more advance, and less frequently used, but nonetheless, sometimes used in practice communication patterns, one would be a deeper hierarchy, where, same as before, if you have a marketing manager sent us a researcher graphic designer writer that made the researcher has themselves two other agents that they call on, such as a wet researcher and a fact checker, Maybe the graphic designer just works by themselves, whereas the writer has an initial star writer in the citation checker. So this would be a hierarchical organization of agents in which some agents might themselves call other sub-agents and also see this using some applications, but this is much more complex than one level hierarchy, so use less often today. And then one final pattern that is quite challenging to execute but I see a few experimental projects use it is the alter all communication pattern. So in this pattern anyone's allowed to talk to anyone else at any time and the way you implement this is you prompt all four of your agents in this case to tell them that there are three other agents it could decide to call on and whenever one of your agents decides to send a message to another agent that message gets added to the receiver agent And then a receiver agent can think for a while and decide when to get back to that first agent. And so if you all collaborate in a crowd and talk to each other for a while until, say, each of them declared that it is done with his task, and then it's not talking, and maybe when everyone thinks it's done, or maybe when the writer concludes it's good enough, that's when you generate the final output. In practice, I find the results of all to all communication patterns a bit hard to predict. So some applications don't need high control, you can run it and see what you get in the marketing brochure isn't good, maybe that's okay, you just run it again and see if you get a different result. But I think for applications where you're willing to tolerate a little bit of chaos and unpredictability, I do see some developers using this communication pattern. So that I hope conveys some of the richness of multi-agentic systems. Today, there are quite a lot of software frameworks as well to support easily building multi-agent systems and they also may implement some of these communication patterns relatively easy, so maybe if you use your own multi-agent system, you'll find some of these frameworks helpful for exploring these different communication patterns as well. And so that now brings us to the final video of this module and of this course. Let's go on to the final video to wrap up. Welcome to the final video of this course. It feels like we've been through a lot together. That's you and me, and we've gone to a lot of topics in Agents API. Let's take a look. In the first module, we talk about what are the applications you can build with Agents API that just were not possible before. And we started then to look at key design patterns, including the Refection Design Pattern, which is a simple way to sometimes give your application a nice performance boost, and then true user function calling, which expands what your own application can do with code execution being one important case of that. And then we spent a lot of time talking about evaluations as well as error analysis and how to drive a disciplined process of building as well as analyzing to be efficient in how you keep on improving the performance of your agent AI system. This fourth module is some of the material that I think you will find most useful as you keep building the agent AI systems, I hope, for a long time. And then in this module, we talk about planning and multi-agent systems that can let you build much more powerful or sometimes harder to control and harder to predict and advance types of systems. So with the skills you learned from this course, I think you now know how to build a lot of cool, exciting, agentic AI applications. When my team or I see other teams as well, interview people for jobs. I find interviews often try to assess are not candidates have pretty much the skills you are learning about in this course. And so I hope that this course will also open up new professional opportunities for you and you just do more. Whether you're doing these things for fun or for professional practical settings, I think you enjoy this new set of things you can now build. So just a wrap up. I want to thank you again for spending all this time with me and I hope you will take these skills. Use some responsibly and just go build Closer.
